Contemporary romance's unicorn: the elusive marriage of deeply brainy and 
delightfully escapist."—New York Times bestselling author CHRISTINA LAUREN 


Praise for The Love Hypothesis 


“Contemporary romance’s unicorn: the elusive marriage of 
deeply brainy and delightfully escapist. . . . The Love 
Hypothesis has wild commercial appeal, but the quieter secret 
is that there is a specific audience, made up of all of the Olives 
in the world, who have deeply, ardently waited for this exact 
book.” 


—New York Times bestselling author Christina Lauren 


“Funny, sexy, and smart. Ali Hazelwood did a terrific job with 
The Love Hypothesis.” 


—New York Times bestselling author Mariana Zapata 


“This tackles one of my favorite tropes—Grumpy meets 
Sunshine—in a fun and utterly endearing way. . . . I loved the 
nods toward fandom and romance novels, and I couldn’t put it 


{?? 


down. Highly recommended 
—New York Times bestselling author Jessica Clare 


“A beautifully written romantic comedy with a heroine you 
will instantly fall in love with, The Love Hypothesis is destined 
to earn a place on your keeper shelf.” 


—Elizabeth Everett, author of A Lady's Formula for Love 


the love 


Hypothesis 


ALI HAZELWOOD 


A JOVE BOOK 
Published by Berkley 
An imprint of Penguin Random House LLC 


penguinrandomhouse.com 


Copyright © 2021 by Ali Hazelwood 
Excerpt from Love on the Brain copyright © 2021 by Ali Hazelwood 


Penguin Random House supports copyright. Copyright fuels creativity, encourages 
diverse voices, promotes free speech, and creates a vibrant culture. Thank you for 
buying an authorized edition of this book and for complying with copyright laws by 
not reproducing, scanning, or distributing any part of it in any form without 
permission. You are supporting writers and allowing Penguin Random House to 
continue to publish books for every reader. 


A JOVE BOOK, BERKLEY, and the BERKLEY &amp; B colophon are registered 
trademarks of Penguin Random House LLC. 


Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 
Names: Hazelwood, Ali, author. 
Title: The love hypothesis / Ali Hazelwood. 
Description: First edition. | New York: Jove, 2021. 


Identifiers: LCCN 2020057346 (print) | LCCN 2020057347 (ebook) | ISBN 
9780593336823 (trade paperback) | ISBN 9780593336830 (ebook) 


Subjects: GSAFD: Love stories. 


Classification: LCC PS3608.A98845 L68 2021 (print) | LCC PS3608.A98845 
(ebook) | DDC 813/.6—dc23 


LC record available at https://Iccn.loc. gov/2020057346 
LC ebook record available at https://Iccn.loc.gov/2020057347 
First Edition: September 2021 
Cover illustration by lilithsaur 
Book design by Tiffany Estreicher, adapted for ebook by Estelle Malmed 


This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents either are the 
product of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously, and any resemblance to 
actual persons, living or dead, business establishments, events, or locales is entirely 

coincidental. 


pid_prh_5.8.0 cO 10 


To my women in STEM: Kate, Caitie, Hatun, and Mar. 
Per aspera ad aspera. 


Contents 


Cover 

Praise for The Love Hypothesis 
Title Page 
Copyright 
Dedication 
Epigraph 
Prologue 
Chapter One 
Chapter Two 
Chapter Three 
Chapter Four 
Chapter Five 
Chapter Six 
Chapter Seven 
Chapter Eight 
Chapter Nine 
Chapter Ten 
Chapter Eleven 
Chapter Twelve 
Chapter Thirteen 


Chapter Fourteen 
Chapter Fifteen 
Chapter Sixteen 
Chapter Seventeen 
Chapter Eighteen 
Chapter Nineteen 
Chapter Twenty 
Chapter Twenty-One 
Chapter Twenty-Two 
Epilogue 

Author s Note 
Acknowledgments 
Excerpt from LOVE ON THE BRAIN 
About the Author 


hy:poth-e:sis (noun) 


A supposition or proposed explanation made on the basis of 
limited evidence, as a starting point for further investigation. 


Example: “Based on the available information and the data 


hitherto collected, my hypothesis is that the farther away | stay 
from love, the better off | will be.” 


Prologue 


Frankly, Olive was a bit on the fence about this whole grad 
school thing. 


Not because she didn’t like science. (She did. She loved 
science. Science was her thing.) And not because of the 
truckload of obvious red flags. She was well aware that 
committing to years of unappreciated, underpaid eighty-hour 
workweeks might not be good for her mental health. That 
nights spent toiling away in front of a Bunsen burner to 
uncover a trivial slice of knowledge might not be the key to 
happiness. That devoting her mind and body to academic 
pursuits with only infrequent breaks to steal unattended bagels 
might not be a wise choice. 


She was well aware, and yet none of it worried her. Or 
maybe it did, a tiny bit, but she could deal. It was something 
else that held her back from surrendering herself to the most 
notorious and soul-sucking circle of hell (i.e. a Ph.D. 
program). Held her back, that is, until she was invited to 
interview for a spot in Stanford’s biology department, and 
came across The Guy. 


The Guy whose name she never really got. 


The Guy she met after stumbling blindly into the first 
bathroom she could find. 


The Guy who asked her, “Out of curiosity, is there a 
specific reason you’re crying in my restroom?” 


Olive squeaked. She tried to open her eyes through the 
tears and only barely managed to. Her entire field of view was 
blurry. All she could see was a watery outline—someone tall, 
dark haired, dressed in black, and .. . yeah. That was it. 


“I... 18 this the ladies’ restroom?” she stammered. 


A pause. Silence. And then: “Nope.” His voice was deep. 
So deep. Really deep. Dreamy deep. 


“Are you sure?” 

“Yes.” 

“Really?” 

“Fairly, since this is my lab’s bathroom.” 


Well. He had her there. “I’m so sorry. Do you need to... .” 
She gestured toward the stall, or where she thought the stalls 
were. Her eyes stung, even closed, and she had to scrunch 
them shut to dull the burn. She tried to dry her cheeks with her 
sleeve, but the material of her wrap dress was cheap and 
flimsy, not half as absorbent as real cotton. Ah, the joys of 
being impoverished. 


“I just need to pour this reagent down the drain,” he said, 
but she didn’t hear him move. Maybe because she was 
blocking the sink. Or maybe because he thought Olive was a 
weirdo and was contemplating siccing the campus police on 
her. That would put a brutally quick end to her Ph.D. dreams, 
wouldn’t it? “We don’t use this as a restroom, just to dispose 
of waste and wash equipment.” 


“Oh, sorry. I thought . . .” Poorly. She’d thought poorly, as 
was her habit and curse. 


“Are you okay?” He must be really tall. His voice sounded 
like it came from ten feet above her. 


“Sure. Why do you ask?” 


“Because you are crying. In my bathroom.” 


“Oh, I’m not crying. Well, I sort of am, but it’s just tears, 
you know?” 


“I do not.” 


She sighed, slumping against the tiled wall. “It’s my 
contacts. They expired some time ago, and they were never 
that great to begin with. They messed up my eyes. I’ve taken 
them off, but...” She shrugged. Hopefully in his direction. “It 
takes a while, before they get better.” 


“You put in expired contacts?” He sounded personally 
offended. 


“Just a little expired.” 
“What’s ‘a little’?” 
“I don’t know. A few years?” 


“What?” His consonants were sharp and precise. Crisp. 
Pleasant. 


“Only just a couple, I think.” 
“Just a couple of years?” 
“It’s okay. Expiration dates are for the weak.” 


A sharp sound—some kind of snort. “Expiration dates are 
so I don’t find you weeping in the corner of my bathroom.” 


Unless this dude was Mr. Stanford himself, he really 
needed to stop calling this his bathroom. 


“It’s fine.” She waved a hand. She’d have rolled her eyes, 
if they hadn’t been on fire. “The burning usually lasts only a 
few minutes.” 


“You mean you’ve done this before?” 
She frowned. “Done what?” 
“Put in expired contacts.” 


“Of course. Contacts are not cheap.” 


“Neither are eyes.” 


Humph. Good point. “Hey, have we met? Maybe last night, 
at the recruitment dinner with prospective Ph.D. students?” 


“No.” 

“You weren’t there?” 

“Not really my scene.” 
“But the free food?” 

“Not worth the small talk.” 


Maybe he was on a diet, because what kind of Ph.D. 
student said that? And Olive was sure that he was a Ph.D. 
student—the haughty, condescending tone was a dead 
giveaway. All Ph.D. students were like that: thinking they 
were better than everyone else just because they had the 
dubious privilege of slaughtering fruit flies in the name of 
science for ninety cents an hour. In the grim, dark hellscape of 
academia, graduate students were the lowliest of creatures and 
therefore had to convince themselves that they were the best. 
Olive was no clinical psychologist, but it seemed like a pretty 
textbook defense mechanism. 


“Are you interviewing for a spot in the program?” he 
asked. 


“Yup. For next year’s biology cohort.” God, her eyes were 
burning. “What about you?” she asked, pressing her palms into 
them. 


“Me?” 

“How long have you been here?” 

“Here?” A pause. “Six years. Give or take.” 
“Oh. Are you graduating soon, then?” 


ss 99 
.. 


She picked up on his hesitation and instantly felt guilty. 
“Wait, you don’t have to tell me. First rule of grad school— 
don’t ask about other grads’ dissertation timeline.” 


A beat. And then another. “Right.” 


“Sorry.” She wished she could see him. Social interactions 
were hard enough to begin with; the last thing she needed was 
fewer cues to go by. “I didn’t mean to channel your parents at 
Thanksgiving.” 


He laughed softly. “You could never.” 
“Oh.” She smiled. “Annoying parents?” 
“And even worse Thanksgivings.” 


“That’s what you Americans get for leaving the 
Commonwealth.” She held out her hand in what she hoped 
was his general direction. “I’m Olive, by the way. Like the 
tree.” She was starting to wonder whether she’d just 
introduced herself to the drain disposal when she heard him 
step closer. The hand that closed around hers was dry, and 
warm, and so large it could have enveloped her whole fist. 
Everything about him must be huge. Height, fingers, voice. 


It was not entirely unpleasant. 
“You’re not American?” he asked. 


“Canadian. Listen, if you happen to talk with anyone who’s 
on the admissions committee, would you mind not mentioning 
my contacts mishap? It might make me seem like a less-than- 
stellar applicant.” 


“You think so?” he deadpanned. 


She would have glared at him if she could. Though maybe 
she was doing a decent job of it anyway, because he laughed— 
just a huff, but Olive could tell. And she kind of liked it. 


He let go of her, and she realized that she’d been gripping 
his hand. Oops. 


“Are you planning to enroll?” he asked. 


She shrugged. “I might not get an offer.” But she and the 
professor she’d interviewed with, Dr. Aslan, had really hit it 
off. Olive had stuttered and mumbled much less than usual. 
Plus, her GRE scores and GPA were almost perfect. Not 
having a life came in handy, sometimes. 


“Are you planning to enroll if you get an offer, then?” 


She’d be stupid not to. This was Stanford, after all—one of 
the best biology programs. Or at least, that was what Olive had 
been telling herself to cover the petrifying truth. 


Which was that, frankly, she was a bit on the fence about 
this whole grad school thing. 


“I... maybe. I must say, the line between excellent career 
choice and critical life screwup is getting a bit blurry.” 


“Seems like you’re leaning toward screwup.” He sounded 
like he was smiling. 


“No. Well... I just...” 

“You just?” 

She bit her lip. “What if I’m not good enough?” she blurted 
out, and why, God, why was she baring the deepest fears of her 
secret little heart to this random bathroom guy? And what was 
the point, anyway? Every time she aired out her doubts to 
friends and acquaintances, they all automatically offered the 
same trite, meaningless encouragements. You'll be fine. You 


can do it. I believe in you. This guy was surely going to do the 
same. 


Coming up. 
Any moment now. 
Any second— 


“Why do you want to do it?” 


Uh? “Do... what?” 
“Get a Ph.D. What’s your reason?” 


Olive cleared her throat. “I’ve always had an inquisitive 
mind, and graduate school is the ideal environment to foster 
that. It’Il give me important transferable skills—” 


He snorted. 
She frowned. “What?” 


“Not the line you found in an interview prep book. Why do 
you want a Ph.D.?” 


“It’s true,” she insisted, a bit weakly. “I want to sharpen my 
research abilities—” 


“Is it because you don’t know what else to do?” 
“No.” 

“Because you didn’t get an industry position?” 
“No—I didn’t even apply for industry.” 


“Ah.” He moved, a large, blurry figure stepping next to her 
to pour something down the sink. Olive could smell a whiff of 
eugenol, and laundry detergent, and clean, male skin. An 
oddly nice combination. 


“I need more freedom than industry can offer.” 


“You won’t have much freedom in academia.” His voice 
was closer, like he hadn’t stepped back yet. “You’ll have to 
fund your work through ludicrously competitive research 
grants. You’d make better money in a nine-to-five job that 
actually allows you to entertain the concept of weekends.” 


Olive scowled. “Are you trying to get me to decline my 
offer? Is this some kind of anti—expired-contacts-wearers 
campaign?” 


“Nah.” 


She could hear his smile. 
“PI go ahead and trust that it was just a misstep.” 
“I wear them all the time, and they almost never—” 


“In a long line of missteps, clearly.” He sighed. “Here’s the 
deal: I have no idea if you’re good enough, but that’s not what 
you should be asking yourself. Academia’s a lot of bucks for 
very little bang. What matters is whether your reason to be in 
academia is good enough. So, why the Ph.D., Olive?” 


She thought about it, and thought, and thought even more. 
And then she spoke carefully. “I have a question. A specific 
research question. Something that I want to find out.” There. 
Done. This was the answer. “Something I’m afraid no one else 
will discover if I don’t.” 


“A question?” 


She felt the air shift and realized that he was now leaning 
against the sink. 


“Yes.” Her mouth felt dry. “Something that’s important to 
me. And—I don’t trust anyone else to do it. Because they 
haven’t so far. Because . . .” Because something bad 
happened. Because I want to do my part so that it wont 
happen again. 


Heavy thoughts to have in the presence of a stranger, in the 
darkness of her closed eyelids. So she cracked them open; her 
vision was still blurry, but the burning was mostly gone. The 
Guy was looking at her. Fuzzy around the edges, perhaps, but 
so very there, waiting patiently for her to continue. 


“It’s important to me,” she repeated. “The research that I 
want to do.” Olive was twenty-three and alone in the world. 
She didn’t want weekends, or a decent salary. She wanted to 
go back in time. She wanted to be less lonely. But since that 
was impossible, she’d settle for fixing what she could. 


He nodded but said nothing as he straightened and took a 
few steps toward the door. Clearly leaving. 


“Is mine a good enough reason to go to grad school?” she 
called after him, hating how eager for approval she sounded. It 
was possible that she was in the midst of some sort of 
existential crisis. 


He paused and looked back at her. “It’s the best one.” 
He was smiling, she thought. Or something like it. 
“Good luck on your interview, Olive.” 

“Thanks.” 

He was almost out the door already. 


“Maybe I'll see you next year,” she babbled, flushing a 
little. “If I get in. And if you haven’t graduated.” 


“Maybe,” she heard him say. 


With that, The Guy was gone. And Olive never got his 
name. But a few weeks later, when the Stanford biology 
department extended her an offer, she accepted it. Without 
hesitating. 


Chapter One 


ef HYPOTHESIS: When given a choice between A (a slightly 
inconveniencing situation) and B (a colossal shitshow with 
devastating consequences), | will inevitably end up selecting B. 


Two years, eleven months later 


In Olive’s defense, the man didn’t seem to mind the kiss too 
much. 


It did take him a moment to adjust—perfectly 
understandable, given the sudden circumstances. It was an 
awkward, uncomfortable, somewhat painful minute, in which 
Olive was simultaneously smashing her lips against his and 
pushing herself as high as her toes would extend to keep her 
mouth at the same level as his face. Did he have to be so tall? 
The kiss must have looked like some clumsy headbutt, and she 
grew anxious that she was not going to be able to pull the 
whole thing off. Her friend Anh, whom Olive had spotted 
coming her way a few seconds ago, was going to take one look 
at this and know at once that Olive and Kiss Dude couldn’t 
possibly be two people in the middle of a date. 


Then that agonizingly slow moment went by, and the kiss 
became . . . different. The man inhaled sharply and inclined his 
head a tiny bit, making Olive feel less like a squirrel monkey 
climbing a baobab tree, and his hands—which were large and 
pleasantly warm in the AC of the hallway—closed around her 
waist. They slid up a few inches, coming to wrap around 
Olive’s rib cage and holding her to himself. Not too close, and 
not too far. 


Just so. 


It was more of a prolonged peck than anything, but it was 
quite nice, and for the life span of a few seconds Olive forgot a 
large number of things, including the fact that she was pressed 
against a random, unknown dude. That she’d barely had the 
time to whisper “Can I please kiss you?” before locking lips 
with him. That what had originally driven her to put on this 
entire show was the hope of fooling Anh, her best friend in the 
whole world. 


But a good kiss will do that: make a girl forget herself for a 
while. Olive found herself melting into a broad, solid chest 
that showed absolutely no give. Her hands traveled from a 
defined jaw into surprisingly thick and soft hair, and then— 
then she heard herself sigh, as if already out of breath, and 
that’s when it hit her like a brick on the head, the realization 
that— No. No. 


Nope, nope, no. 

She should not be enjoying this. Random dude, and all that. 

Olive gasped and pushed herself away from him, 
frantically looking for Anh. In the 11:00 p.m. bluish glow of 
the biology labs’ hallway, her friend was nowhere to be seen. 


Weird. Olive was sure she had spotted her a few seconds 
earlier. 


Kiss Dude, on the other hand, was standing right in front of 
her, lips parted, chest rising and a weird light flickering in his 
eyes, which was exactly when it dawned on her, the enormity 
of what she had just done. Of who she had just— 


Fuck her life. 
Fuck. Her. Life. 
Because Dr. Adam Carlsen was a known ass. 


This fact was not remarkable in and of itself, as in 
academia every position above the graduate student level 
(Olive’s level, sadly) required some degree of assness in order 


to be held for any length of time, with tenured faculty at the 
very peak of the ass pyramid. Dr. Carlsen, though—he was 
exceptional. At least if the rumors were anything to go by. 


He was the reason Olive’s roommate, Malcolm, had to 
completely scrap two research projects and would likely end 
up graduating a year late; the one who had made Jeremy throw 
up from anxiety before his qualifying exams; the sole culprit 
for half the students in the department being forced to 
postpone their thesis defenses. Joe, who used to be in Olive’s 
cohort and would take her to watch out-of-focus European 
movies with microscopic subtitles every Thursday night, had 
been a research assistant in Carlsen’s lab, but he’d decided to 
drop out six months into it for “reasons.” It was probably for 
the best, since most of Carlsen’s remaining graduate assistants 
had perennially shaky hands and often looked like they hadn’t 
slept in a year. 


Dr. Carlsen might have been a young academic rock star 
and biology’s wunderkind, but he was also mean and 
hypercritical, and it was obvious in the way he spoke, in the 
way he carried himself, that he thought himself the only 
person doing decent science within the Stanford biology 
department. Within the entire world, probably. He was a 
notoriously moody, obnoxious, terrifying dick. 


And Olive had just kissed him. 


She wasn’t sure how long the silence lasted—only that he 
was the one to break it. He stood in front of Olive, ridiculously 
intimidating with dark eyes and even darker hair, staring down 
from who knows how many inches above six feet—he must 
have been over half a foot taller than she was. He scowled, an 
expression that she recognized from seeing him attend the 
departmental seminar, a look that usually preceded him raising 
his hand to point out some perceived fatal flaw in the 
speaker’s work. 


Adam Carlsen. Destroyer of research careers, Olive had 
once overheard her adviser say. 


Its okay. Its fine. Totally fine. She was just going to 
pretend nothing had happened, nod at him politely, and tiptoe 
her way out of here. Yes, solid plan. 


“Did you . . . Did you just kiss me?” He sounded puzzled, 
and maybe a little out of breath. His lips were full and plump 
and .. . God. Kissed. There was simply no way Olive could 
get away with denying what she had just done. 


Still, it was worth a try. 
“Nope. 99 
Surprisingly, it seemed to work. 


“Ah. Okay, then.” Carlsen nodded and turned around, 
looking vaguely disoriented. He took a couple of steps down 
the hallway, reached the water fountain—maybe where he’d 
been headed in the first place. 


Olive was starting to believe that she might actually be off 
the hook when he halted and turned back with a skeptical 
expression. 


“Are you sure?” 
Dammit. 


“I—” She buried her face in her hands. “It’s not the way it 
looks.” 


“Okay. I... Okay,” he repeated slowly. His voice was deep 
and low and sounded a lot like he was on his way to getting 
mad. Like maybe he was already mad. “What’s going on 
here?” 


There was simply no way to explain this. Any normal 
person would have found Olive’s situation odd, but Adam 
Carlsen, who obviously considered empathy a bug and not a 


feature of humanity, could never understand. She let her hands 
fall to her sides and took a deep breath. 


“I... listen, I don’t mean to be rude, but this is really none 
of your business.” 


He stared at her for a moment, and then he nodded. “Yes. 
Of course.” He must be getting back into his usual groove, 
because his tone had lost some of its surprise and was back to 
normal—dry. Laconic. “Pll just go back to my office and 
begin to work on my Title IX complaint.” 


Olive exhaled in relief. “Yeah. That would be great, since 
— Wait. Your what?” 


He cocked his head. “Title IX is a federal law that protects 
against sexual misconduct within academic settings—” 


“I know what Title IX is.” 
“I see. So you willfully chose to disregard it.” 
“I— What? No. No, I didn’t!” 


He shrugged. “I must be mistaken, then. Someone else 
must have assaulted me.” 


“Assault—I didn’t ‘assault’ you.” 

“You did kiss me.” 

“But not really.” 

“Without first securing my consent.” 

“I asked if I could kiss you!” 

“And then did so without waiting for my response.” 
“What? You said yes.” 

“Excuse me?” 


She frowned. “I asked if I could kiss you, and you said 


99 


yes. 


“Incorrect. You asked if you could kiss me and I snorted.” 
“I’m pretty sure I heard you said yes.” 


He lifted one eyebrow, and for a minute Olive let herself 
daydream of drowning someone. Dr. Carlsen. Herself. Both 
sounded like great options. 


“Listen, I’m really sorry. It was a weird situation. Can we 
just forget that this happened?” 


He studied her for a long moment, his angular face serious 
and something else, something that she couldn’t quite decipher 
because she was too busy noticing all over again how damn 
towering and broad he was. Just massive. Olive had always 
been slight, just this side of too slender, but girls who are five 
eight rarely felt diminutive. At least until they found 
themselves standing next to Adam Carlsen. She’d known that 
he was tall, of course, from seeing him around the department 
or walking across campus, from sharing the elevator with him, 
but they’d never interacted. Never been this close. 


Except for a second ago, Olive. When you almost put your 
tongue in his— 


“Is there something wrong?” He sounded almost 
concerned. 


“What? No. No, there isn’t.” 


“Because,” he continued calmly, “kissing a stranger at 
midnight in a science lab might be a sign that there is.” 


“There isn’t.” 


Carlsen nodded, thoughtful. “Very well. Expect mail in the 
next few days, then.” He began to walk past her, and she 
turned to yell after him. 


“You didn’t even ask my name!” 


“I’m sure anyone could figure it out, since you must have 
swiped your badge to get in the labs area after hours. Have a 


good night.” 


“Wait!” She leaned forward and stopped him with a hand 
on his wrist. He paused immediately, even though it was 
obvious that it would take him no effort to free himself, and 
stared pointedly at the spot where her fingers had wrapped 
around his skin—right below a wristwatch that probably cost 
half her yearly graduate salary. Or all of it. 


She let go of him at once and took one step back. “Sorry, I 
didn’t mean to—” 


“The kiss. Explain.” 


Olive bit into her lower lip. She had truly screwed herself 
over. She had to tell him, now. “Anh Pham.” She looked 
around to make sure Anh was really gone. “The girl who was 
passing by. She’s a graduate student in the biology 
department.” 


Carlsen gave no indication of knowing who Anh was. 


“Anh has . . .” Olive pushed a strand of brown hair behind 
her ear. This was where the story became embarrassing. 
Complicated, and a little juvenile sounding. “I was seeing this 
guy in the department. Jeremy Langley, he has red hair and 
works with Dr. . . . Anyway, we went out just a couple of 
times, and then I brought him to Anh’s birthday party, and they 
just sort of hit it off and—” 


Olive shut her eyes. Which was probably a bad idea, 
because now she could see it painted on her lids, how her best 
friend and her date had bantered in that bowling alley, as if 
they’d known each other their whole lives; the never- 
exhausted topics of conversation, the laughter, and then, at the 
end of the night, Jeremy following Anh’s every move with his 
gaze. It had been painfully clear who he was interested in. 
Olive waved a hand and tried for a smile. 


“Long story short, after Jeremy and I ended things he asked 
Anh out. She said no because of . . . girl code and all that, but I 
can tell that she really likes him. She’s afraid to hurt my 
feelings, and no matter how many times I told her it was fine 
she wouldn’t believe me.” 


Not to mention that the other day I overheard her confess 
to our friend Malcolm that she thought Jeremy was awesome, 
but she could never betray me by going out with him, and she 
sounded so dejected. Disappointed and insecure, not at all like 
the spunky, larger-than-life Anh I am used to. 


“So I just lied and told her that I was already dating 
someone else. Because she’s one of my closest friends and I’d 
never seen her like a guy this much and I want her to have the 
good things she deserves and I’m positive that she would do 
the same for me and—” Olive realized that she was rambling 
and that Carlsen couldn’t have cared less. She stopped and 
swallowed, even though her mouth felt dry. “Tonight. I told 
her I'd be on a date tonight.” 


“Ah.” His expression was unreadable. 


“But I’m not. So I decided to come in to work on an 
experiment, but Anh showed up, too. She wasn’t supposed to 
be here. But she was. Coming this way. And I panicked— 
well.” Olive wiped a hand down her face. “I didn’t really 
think.” 


Carlsen didn’t say anything, but it was there in his eyes that 
he was thinking, Obviously. 


“I just needed her to believe that I was on a date.” 


He nodded. “So you kissed the first person you saw in the 
hallway. Perfectly logical.” 


Olive winced. “When you put it like that, perhaps it wasn’t 
my best moment.” 


“Perhaps.” 


“But it wasn’t my worst, either! I’m pretty sure Anh saw 
us. Now she’ll think that I was on a date with you and she’ll 
hopefully feel free to go out with Jeremy and—” She shook 
her head. “Listen. I’m so, so sorry about the kiss.” 


“Are you?” 


“Please, don’t report me. I really thought I heard you say 
yes. I promise I didn’t mean to...” 


Suddenly, the enormity of what she had just done fully 
dawned on her. She had just kissed a random guy, a guy who 
happened to be the most notoriously unpleasant faculty 
member in the biology department. She’d misunderstood a 
snort for consent, she’d basically attacked him in the hallway, 
and now he was staring at her in that odd, pensive way, so 
large and focused and close to her, and... 


Shit. 


Maybe it was the late night. Maybe it was that her last 
coffee had been sixteen hours ago. Maybe it was Adam 
Carlsen looking down at her, like that. All of a sudden, this 
entire situation was just too much. 


“Actually, you’re absolutely right. And I am so sorry. If 
you felt in any way harassed by me, you really should report 
me, because it’s only fair. It was a horrible thing to do, though 
I really didn’t want to . . . Not that my intentions matter; it’s 
more like your perception of...” 


Crap, crap, crap. 


“I’m going to leave now, okay? Thank you, and... I am 
so, so, so sorry.” Olive spun around on her heels and ran away 
down the hallway. 


“Olive,” she heard him call after her. “Olive, wait—” 


She didn’t stop. She sprinted down the stairs to the first 
floor and then out the building and across the pathways of the 


sparsely lit Stanford campus, running past a girl walking her 
dog and a group of students laughing in front of the library. 
She continued until she was standing in front of her 
apartment’s door, stopping only to unlock it, making a beeline 
for her room in the hope of avoiding her roommate and 
whoever he might have brought home tonight. 


It wasn’t until she slumped on her bed, staring at the glow- 
in-the-dark stars glued to her ceiling, that she realized she had 
neglected to check on her lab mice. She had also left her 
laptop on her bench and her sweatshirt somewhere in the lab, 
and she had completely forgotten to stop at the store and buy 
the coffee she’d promised Malcolm she’d get for tomorrow 
morning. 


Shit. What a disaster of a day. 


It never occurred to Olive that Dr. Adam Carlsen—known 
ass—had called her by her name. 


Chapter Twe 


ef HYPOTHESIS: Any rumor regarding my love life will spread 
with a speed that is directly proportional to my desire to keep 
said rumor a secret. 


Olive Smith was a rising third-year Ph.D. student in one of the 
best biology departments in the country, one that housed more 
than one hundred grads and what often felt like several million 
majoring undergrads. She had no idea what the exact number 
of faculty was, but judging from the mailboxes in the copy 
room she’d say that a safe guess was: too many. Therefore, she 
reasoned that if she’d never had the misfortune of interacting 
with Adam Carlsen in the two years before The Night (it had 
been only a handful of days since the kissing incident, but 
Olive already knew that she’d think of last Friday as The 
Night for the rest of her life), it was entirely possible that she 
might be able to finish grad school without crossing paths with 
him ever again. In fact, she was fairly sure that not only did 
Adam Carlsen have no idea who she was, but he also had no 
desire to learn—and had probably already forgotten all about 
what happened. 


Unless, of course, she was catastrophically wrong and he 
did end up filing a Title IX lawsuit. In which case she 
supposed that she would see him again, when she pleaded 
guilty in federal court. 


Olive figured that she could waste her time fretting about 
legal fees, or she could focus on what were more pressing 
issues. Like the approximately five hundred slides she had to 
prepare for the neurobiology class that she was slated to TA in 
the fall semester, which was starting in less than two weeks. 


Or the note Malcolm had left this morning, telling her he’d 
seen a cockroach scurry under the credenza even though their 
apartment was already full of traps. Or the most crucial one: 
the fact that her research project had reached a critical point 
and she desperately needed to find a bigger, significantly 
richer lab to carry out her experiment. Otherwise, what could 
very well become a groundbreaking, clinically relevant study 
might end up languishing on a handful of petri dishes stacked 
in the crisper drawer of her fridge. 


Olive opened her laptop with half a mind to google 
“Organs one can live without” and “How much cash for them” 
but got sidetracked by the twenty new emails she’d received 
while busy with her lab animals. They were almost exclusively 
from predatory journals, Nigerian prince wannabes, and one 
glitter company whose newsletter she’d signed up for six years 
ago to get a free tube of lipstick. Olive quickly marked them as 
read, eager to go back to her experiments, and then noticed 
that one message was actually a reply to something she had 
sent. A reply from . . . Holy crap. Holy crap. 


She clicked on it so hard she almost sprained her pointer 
finger. 


Today, 3:15 p.m. 

FROM: Tom-Benton@harvard.edu 

TO: Olive-Smith@stanford.edu 

SUBJECT: Re: Pancreatic Cancer Screening Project 
Olive, 


Your project sounds good. l'Il be visiting Stanford in about two 
weeks. Why don't we chat then? 


Cheers, 

TB 

Tom Benton, Ph.D. 
Associate Professor 


Department of Biological Sciences, Harvard University 


Her heart skipped a beat. Then it started galloping. Then it 
slowed down to a crawl. And then she felt her blood pulsate in 
her eyelids, which couldn’t be healthy, but— Yes. Yes! She had 
a taker. Almost. Probably? Maybe. Definitely maybe. Tom 
Benton had said “good.” He had said that it sounded “good.” It 
had to be a “good” sign, right? 


She frowned, scrolling down to reread the email she’d sent 
him several weeks earlier. 


July 7, 8:19 a.m. 

FROM: Olive-Smith@stanford.edu 

TO: Tom-Benton@harvard.edu 

SUBJECT: Pancreatic Cancer Screening Project 
Dr. Benton, 


My name is Olive Smith, and | am a Ph.D. student in the biology 
department of Stanford University. My research focuses on 
pancreatic cancer, in particular on finding noninvasive, affordable 
detection tools that could lead to early treatment and increase 
survival rates. | have been working on blood biomarkers, with 
promising results. (You can read about my preliminary work in the 
peer-reviewed paper | have attached. | have also submitted more 
recent, unpublished findings to this year’s Society for Biological 
Discovery conference; acceptance is pending but see the attached 
abstract.) The next step would be to carry out additional studies to 
determine the feasibility of my test kit. 


Unfortunately my current lab (Dr. Aysegul Aslan’s, who is retiring 
in two years) does not have the funding or the equipment to allow 
me to proceed. She is encouraging me to find a larger cancer 
research lab where | could spend the next academic year to collect 
the data | need. Then | would return to Stanford to analyze and 
write up the data. | am a huge fan of the work you have published 
on pancreatic cancer, and | was wondering whether there might be 
a possibility to carry out my work in your lab at Harvard. 


I am happy to talk more in detail about my project if you are 
interested. 


Sincerely, 

Olive 

Olive Smith 
Ph.D. Candidate 


Biology Department, Stanford University 


If Tom Benton, cancer researcher extraordinaire, came to 
Stanford and gave Olive ten minutes of his time, she could 
convince him to help her out with her research predicament! 


Well . .. maybe. 


Olive was much better at actually doing research than at 
selling its importance to others. Science communication and 
public speaking of any sort were definitely her big 
weaknesses. But she had a chance to show Benton how 
promising her results were. She could list the clinical benefits 
of her work, and she could explain how little she required to 
turn her project into a huge success. All she needed was a 
quiet bench in a corner of his lab, a couple hundred of his lab 
mice, and unlimited access to his twenty-million-dollar 
electron microscope. Benton wouldn’t even notice her. 


Olive headed for the break room, mentally writing an 
impassioned speech on how she was willing to use his 
facilities only at night and limit her oxygen consumption to 
less than five breaths per minute. She poured herself a cup of 
stale coffee and turned around to find someone scowling right 
behind her. 


She startled so hard that she almost burned herself. 


“Jesus!” She clutched her chest, took a deep breath, and 
held tighter onto her Scooby-Doo mug. “Anh. You scared the 
shit out of me.” 


“Olive.” 


It was a bad sign. Anh never called her Olive—never, 
unless she was reprimanding her for biting her nails to the 
quick or for having vitamin gummies for dinner. 


“Hey! How was your—” 
“The other night.” 


Dammit. “—weekend?”’ 


“Dr. Carlsen.” 
Dammit, dammit, dammit. “What about him?” 
“I saw the two of you together.” 


“Oh. Really?” Olive’s surprise sounded painfully 
playacted, even to her own ears. Maybe she should have 
signed up for drama club in high school instead of playing 
every single sport available. 


“Yes. Here, in the department.” 
“Oh. Cool. Um, I didn’t see you, or I’d have said hi.” 


Anh frowned. “Ol. I saw you. I saw you with Carlsen. You 
know that I saw you, and I know that you know that I saw you, 
because you’ve been avoiding me.” 


“I have not.” 


Anh gave her one of her formidable no-bullshit looks. It 
was probably the one she used as president of the student 
senate, as head of the Stanford Women in Science Association, 
as director of outreach for the Organization of BIPOC 
Scientists. There was no fight Anh couldn’t win. She was 
fearsome and indomitable, and Olive loved this about her—but 
not right now. 


“You haven’t answered any of my messages for the past 
two days. We usually text every hour.” 


They did. Multiple times. Olive switched the mug to her 
left hand, for no reason other than to buy some time. “I’ve 
been... busy?” 


“Busy?” Anh’s eyebrow shot up. “Busy kissing Carlsen?” 
“Oh. Oh, that. That was just...” 


Anh nodded, as if to encourage her to finish the sentence. 
When it became obvious that Olive couldn’t, Anh continued 
for her. 


“That was—no offense, Ol—but that was the most bizarre 
kiss I have ever seen.” 


Calm. Stay calm. She doesnt know. She cannot know. “I 
doubt that,” Olive retorted weakly. “Take that upside-down 
Spider-Man kiss. That was way more bizarre than—” 


“Ol, you said you were on a date that night. You’re not 
dating Carlsen, are you?” She twisted her face in a grimace. 


It would have been so easy to confess the truth. Since 
starting grad school Anh and Olive had done heaps of moronic 
things, together and separately; the time Olive panicked and 
kissed none other than Adam Carlsen could become one of 
them, one they laughed about during their weekly beer-and- 
s’mores nights. 


Or not. There was a chance that if Olive admitted to lying 
now, Anh might never trust her again. Or that she’d never go 
out with Jeremy. And as much as the idea of her best friend 
dating her ex had Olive wanting to puke just a bit, the thought 
of said best friend being anything but happy had her wanting 
to puke a lot more. 


The situation was depressingly simple: Olive was alone in 
the world. She had been for a long time, ever since high 
school. She had trained herself not to make a big deal out of it 
—she was sure many people were alone in the world and 
found themselves having to write down made-up names and 
phone numbers on their emergency contact forms. During 
college and her master’s, focusing on science and research had 
been her way of coping, and she had been perfectly ready to 
spend the rest of her life holed up in a lab with little more than 
a beaker and a handful of pipettes as her faithful companions 
—until... Anh. 


In a way, it had been love at first sight. First day of grad 
school. Biology cohort orientation. Olive entered the 
conference room, looked around, and sat in the first free seat 


she could find, petrified. She was the only woman in the room, 
virtually alone in a sea of white men who were already talking 
about boats, and whatever sportsball was on TV the night 
before, and the best routes to drive places. 7 have made a 
terrible mistake, she thought. The Guy in the bathroom was 
wrong. I should never have come here. I am never going to fit 
in. 

And then a girl with curly dark hair and a pretty, round face 
plopped in the chair next to hers and muttered, “So much for 
the STEM programs?’ commitment to inclusivity, am I right?” 
That was the moment everything changed. 


They could have just been allies. As the only two non-cis- 
white-male students in their year, they could have found solace 
together when some bitching was needed and ignored each 
other otherwise. Olive had lots of friends like that—all of 
them, actually, circumstantial acquaintances whom she 
thought of fondly but not very often. Anh, though, had been 
different from the start. Maybe because they’d soon found out 
that they loved spending their Saturday nights eating junk food 
and falling asleep to rom-coms. Maybe it was the way she’d 
insisted on dragging Olive to every single “women in STEM” 
support group on campus and had wowed everyone with her 
bull’s-eye comments. Maybe it was that she’d opened up to 
Olive and explained how hard it had been for her to get where 
she was today. The way her older brothers had made fun of her 
and called her a nerd for loving math so much growing up—at 
an age when being a nerd was not quite considered cool. That 
time a physics professor asked her if she was in the wrong 
class on the first day of the semester. The fact that despite her 
grades and research experience, even her academic adviser had 
seemed skeptical when she’d decided to pursue STEM higher 
education. 


Olive, whose path to grad school had been rough but not 
nearly as rough, was befuddled. Then enraged. And then in 


absolute awe when she understood the self-doubt that Anh had 
been able to harness into sheer fierceness. 


And for some unimaginable reason, Anh seemed to like 
Olive just as much. When Olive’s stipend hadn’t quite 
stretched to the end of the month, Anh had shared her instant 
ramen. When Olive’s computer had crashed without backups, 
Anh had stayed up all night to help her rewrite her 
crystallography paper. When Olive had nowhere to go over the 
holidays, Anh would bring her friend home to Michigan and 
let her large family ply Olive with delicious food while rapid 
Vietnamese flowed around her. When Olive had felt too stupid 
for the program and had considered dropping out, Anh had 
talked her out of it. 


The day Olive met Anh’s rolling eyes, a life-changing 
friendship was born. Slowly, they’d begun to include Malcolm 
and become a bit of a trio, but Anh... Anh was her person. 
Family. Olive hadn’t even thought that was possible for 
someone like her. 


Anh rarely asked anything for herself, and even though 
they’d been friends for more than two years, Olive had never 
seen her show interest in dating anyone—until Jeremy. 
Pretending that she’d been on a date with Carlsen was the least 
Olive could do to ensure her friend’s happiness. 


So she bucked up, smiled, and tried to keep her tone 
reasonably even while asking, “What do you mean?” 


“I mean that we talk every minute of every day, and you 
never mentioned Carlsen before. My closest friend is 
supposedly seeing the superstar professor of the department, 
and somehow I’ve never heard of it? You know his reputation, 
right? Is it some kind of joke? Do you have a brain tumor? Do 
I have a brain tumor?” 


This was what happened whenever Olive lied: she ended 
up having to tell even more lies to cover her first, and she was 


horrible at it, which meant that each lie got worse and less 
convincing than the previous. There was no way she could 
fool Anh. There was no way she could fool anybody. Anh was 
going to get mad, then Jeremy was going to get mad, then 
Malcolm, too, and then Olive was going to find herself utterly 
alone. The heartbreak was going to make her flunk out of grad 
school. She was going to lose her visa and her only source of 
income and move back to Canada, where it snowed all the 
time and people ate moose heart and— 


“Hey.” 


The voice, deep and even, came from somewhere behind 
Olive, but she didn’t need to turn to know that it was 
Carlsen’s. Just like she didn’t need to turn to know that the 
large, warm weight suddenly steadying her, a firm but barely 
there pressure applied to the center of her lower back, was 
Carlsen’s hand. About two inches above her ass. 


Holy crap. 


Olive twisted her neck and looked up. And up. And up. 
And a bit more up. She was not a short woman, but he was just 
big. “Oh. Um, hey.” 


“Is everything okay?” He said it looking into her eyes, in a 
low, intimate tone. Like they were alone. Like Anh was not 
there. He said it in a way that should have made Olive 
uncomfortable but didn’t. For some inexplicable reason his 
presence in the room soothed her, even though until a second 
ago she had been freaking out. Perhaps two different types of 
unease neutralized each other? It sounded like a fascinating 
research topic. Worth pursuing. Maybe Olive should abandon 
biology and switch to psychology. Maybe she should excuse 
herself and go run a literature search. Maybe she should expire 
on the spot to avoid facing this crapfest of a situation she’d put 
herself in. 


“Yes. Yes. Everything is great. Anh and I were just... 
chatting. About our weekends.” 


Carlsen looked at Anh, as though realizing for the first time 
that she was in the room. He acknowledged her existence with 
one of those brief nods dudes used to greet others. His hand 
slid lower on Olive’s spine just as Anh’s eyes widened. 


“Nice to meet you, Anh. I’ve heard a lot about you,” 
Carlsen said, and he was good at this, Olive had to admit. 
Because she was sure that from Anh’s angle it looked like he 
was groping her, but in fact he was . . . not. Olive could barely 
feel his hand on her. 


Just a little, maybe. The warmth, and the slight pressure, 
and— 


“Nice to meet you, too.” Anh looked thunderstruck. Like 
she might pass out. “Um, I was just about to leave. Ol, ’'m 
going to text you when... yeah.” 


She was out of the room before Olive could answer. Which 
was good, because Olive didn’t need to come up with more 
lies. But also slightly less good, because now it was just her 
and Carlsen. Standing way too close. Olive would have paid 
good money to say that she was the one to put some distance 
between them, but the embarrassing truth was that it was 
Carlsen who stepped away first. Enough to give her the space 
she needed, and then some. 


“Is everything okay?” he asked again. His tone was still 
soft. Not something she would have expected from him. 


“Yes. Yes, I just . . .” Olive waved her hand. “Thank you.” 
“You’re welcome.” 
“Did you hear what she said? About Friday and...” 


“I did. That’s why I...” He looked at her, and then at his 
hand—the one that had been warming her back a few seconds 


ago—and Olive immediately understood. 


“Thank you,” she repeated. Because Adam Carlsen might 
have been a known ass, but Olive was feeling pretty damn 
grateful right at the moment. “Also, uh, I couldn’t help 
noticing that no agents from the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation have knocked on my door to arrest me in the past 
seventy-two hours.” 


The corner of his mouth twitched. Minimally. “Is that so?” 


Olive nodded. “Which makes me think that maybe you 
haven’t filed that complaint. Even though it would have been 
totally within your rights. So, thank you. For that. And... and 
for stepping in, right now. You saved me a lot of trouble.” 


Carlsen stared at her for a long moment, looking suddenly 
like he did during seminar, when people mixed up theory and 
hypothesis or admitted to using listwise deletion instead of 
imputation. “You shouldn’t need someone to step in.” 


Olive stiffened. Right. Known ass. “Well, it’s not as if I 
asked you to do anything. I was going to handle it by myse—” 


“And you shouldn’t have to lie about your relationship 
status,” he continued. “Especially not so that your friend and 
your boyfriend can get together guilt-free. That’s not how 
friendship works, last I checked.” 


Oh. So he’d actually been listening when Olive vomited 
her life story at him. “It’s not like that.” He lifted an eyebrow, 
and Olive raised a hand in defense. “Jeremy wasn’t really my 
boyfriend. And Anh didn’t ask me for anything. I’m not some 
sort of victim, I just . . . want my friend to be happy.” 


“By lying to her,” he added drily. 


“Well, yeah, but . . . She thinks we’re dating, you and I,” 
Olive blurted out. God, the implications were too ridiculous to 
bear. 


“Wasn’t that the point?” 


“Yeah.” She nodded and then remembered the coffee in her 
hand and took a sip from her mug. It was still warm. The 
conversation with Anh couldn’t have lasted more than five 
minutes. “Yeah. I guess it was. By the way—I’m Olive Smith. 
In case you’re still interested in filing that complaint. I’m a 
Ph.D. student in Dr. Aslan’s lab—” 


“I know who you are.” 


“Oh.” Maybe he had looked her up, then. Olive tried to 
imagine him combing through the Current Ph.D. Students’ 
section on the department website. Olive’s picture had been 
taken by the program secretary on her third day of grad school, 
well before she had become fully aware of what she was in for. 
She had made an effort to look good: tamed her wavy brown 
hair, put on mascara to pop the green of her eyes, even 
attempted to hide her freckles with some borrowed foundation. 
It had been before she’d realized how ruthless, how cutthroat 
academia could be. Before the sense of inadequacy, before the 
constant fear that even if she was good at research, she might 
never be able to truly make it as an academic. She had been 
smiling. A real, actual smile. 


“Okay.” 
“T’m Adam. Carlsen. I’m faculty in—” 


She burst out laughing in his face. And then regretted it 
immediately as she noticed his confused expression, as though 
he’d seriously thought Olive might not know who he was. As 
though he was unaware of being one of the most prominent 
scholars in the field. The modesty was not at all like Adam 
Carlsen. Olive cleared her throat. 


“Right. Um, I know who you are, too, Dr. Carlsen.” 


“You should probably call me Adam.” 


“Oh. Oh, no.” That would be way too .. . No. The 
department was not like that. Grads didn’t call faculty by their 
first names. “I could never—” 


“If Anh happens to be around.” 


“Oh. Yeah.” It made sense. “Thank you. I hadn’t thought of 
that.” Or of anything else, really. Clearly, her brain had 
stopped working three days ago, when she’d decided that 
kissing him to save her own ass was a good idea. “If that’s o- 
okay with you. I’m going to go home, because this whole 
thing was kind of stressful and .. .” I was going to run an 
experiment, but I really need to sit on the couch and watch 
American Ninja Warrior for forty-five minutes while eating 
Cool Ranch Doritos, which taste surprisingly better than 
you'd give them credit for. 


He nodded. “I'll walk you to your car.” 
“I’m not that distraught.” 
“In case Anh’s still around.” 


“Oh.” It was, Olive had to admit, a kind offer. Surprisingly 
so. Especially because it came from Adam “I’m Too Good for 
This Department” Carlsen. Olive knew that he was a dick, so 
she couldn’t quite understand why today he . . . didn’t seem to 
be one. Maybe she should just blame her own appalling 
behavior, which would make anyone look good by 
comparison. “Thanks. But no need.” 


She could tell that he didn’t want to insist but couldn’t help 
himself. “Id feel better if you let me walk you to your car.” 


“I don’t have a car.” I’m a grad student living in Stanford, 
California. I make less than thirty thousand dollars a year. My 
rent takes up two-thirds of my salary. I’ve been wearing the 
same pair of contacts since May, and I go to every seminar 
that provides refreshments to save on meals, she didn’t bother 


adding. She had no idea how old Carlsen was, but it couldn’t 
have been that long ago that he was a grad student. 


“Do you take the bus?” 


“I bike. And my bike is right at the entrance of the 
building.” 


He opened his mouth, and then closed it. And then opened 
it again. 


You kissed that mouth, Olive. And it was a good kiss. 
“There are no bike lanes around here.” 


She shrugged. “I like to live dangerously.” Cheaply, she 
meant. “And I have a helmet.” She turned to set her mug on 
the first surface she could find. She’d retrieve it later. Or not, if 
someone stole it. Who cared? She’d gotten it from a postdoc 
who'd left academia to become a DJ, anyway. For the second 
time in less than a week, Carlsen had saved her ass. For the 
second time, she couldn’t stand being with him a minute 
longer. 


“PI see you around, okay?” 
His chest rose as he inhaled deeply. “Yeah. Okay.” 


Olive got out of the room as fast as she could. 


"IS IT A prank? It must be a prank. Am I on national TV? Where 
are the hidden cameras? How do I look?” 


“It’s not a prank. There are no cameras.” Olive adjusted the 
strap of her backpack on her shoulder and stepped to the side 
to avoid being run over by an undergrad on an electric scooter. 
“But now that you mention it—you look great. Especially for 
seven thirty in the morning.” 


Anh didn’t blush, but it was a close thing. “Last night I did 
one of those face masks that you and Malcolm got me for my 
birthday. The one that looks like a panda? And I got a new 
sunscreen that’s supposed to give you a bit of a glow. And I 
put on mascara,” she added hastily under her breath. 


Olive could ask her why she’d gone the extra mile to look 
nice on a run-of-the-mill Tuesday morning, but she already 
knew the answer: Jeremy’s and Anh’s labs were on the same 
floor, and while the biology department was large, chance 
encounters were very much a possibility. 


She hid a smile. As weird as the idea of a best friend dating 
an ex might sound, she was glad that Anh was starting to allow 
herself to consider Jeremy romantically. Mostly, it was nice to 
know that the indignity Olive had put herself through with 
Carlsen on The Night was paying off. That, together with Tom 
Benton’s very promising email about her research project, had 
Olive thinking that things might be finally looking up. 


“Okay.” Anh chewed on her lower lip, deep in 
concentration. “So it’s not a prank. Which means that there 
must be another explanation. Let me find it.” 


“There is no explanation to be found. We just—” 


“Oh my God, are you trying to get citizenship? Are they 
deporting you back to Canada because we’ve been sharing 
Malcolm’s Netflix password? Tell them we didn’t know it was 
a federal crime. No, wait, don’t tell them anything until we get 
you a lawyer. And, Ol, I will marry you. I'll get you a green 
card and you won’t have to—” 


“Anh.” Olive squeezed her friend’s hand tighter to get her 
to shut up for a second. “I promise you, I’m not getting 
deported. I just went on a single date with Carlsen.” 


Anh scrunched her face and dragged Olive to a bench on 
the side of the path, forcing her to sit down. Olive complied, 
telling herself that were their positions inverted, had she 


caught Anh kissing Adam Carlsen, she’d probably have the 
same reaction. Hell, she’d probably be busy booking a full- 
blown psychiatric evaluation for Anh. 


“Listen,” Anh started, “do you remember last spring, when 
I held your hair back while you projectile vomited the five 
pounds of spoiled shrimp cocktail you ate at Dr. Park’s 
retirement party?” 


“Oh, yes. I do.” Olive cocked her head, pensive. “You ate 
more than me and never got sick.” 


“Because I’m made of sterner stuff, but never mind that. 
The point is: I am here for you, and always will be, no matter 
what. No matter how many pounds of spoiled shrimp cocktail 
you projectile vomit, you can trust me. We’re a team, you and 
I. And Malcolm, when he’s not busy screwing his way through 
the Stanford population. So if Carlsen is secretly an 
extraterrestrial life-form planning a takeover of Earth that will 
ultimately result in humanity being enslaved by evil overlords 
who look like cicadas, and the only way to stop him is dating 
him, you can tell me and PII inform NASA—” 


“For God’s sake’—Olive had to laugh—‘it was just a 
date!” 


Anh looked pained. “I just don’t understand.” 


Because it doesnt make sense. “I know, but there is 
nothing to understand. It’s just . .. We went on a date.” 


“But . . . why? Ol, you’re beautiful and smart and funny 
and have excellent taste in knee socks, why would you go out 
with Adam Carlsen?” 


Olive scratched her nose. “Because he is... .” It cost her, to 
say the word. Oh, it cost her. But she had to. “Nice.” 


“Nice?” Anh’s eyebrows shot up so high they almost 
merged with her hairline. 


She does look extra cute today, Olive reflected, pleased. 
“Adam ‘Ass’ Carlsen?” 


“Well, yeah. He is . . .” Olive looked around, as if help 
could come from the oak trees, or the undergrads rushing to 
their summer classes. When it didn’t seem forthcoming, she 
just finished, lamely, “He is a nice asshole, I guess.” 


Anh’s expression went straight up disbelieving. “Okay, so 
you went from dating someone as cool as Jeremy to going out 
with Adam Carlsen.” 


Perfect. This was exactly the opening Olive had wanted. “I 
did. And happily, because I never cared that much about 
Jeremy.” Finally some truth in this conversation. “It wasn’t 
that hard to move on, honestly. Which is why— Please, Anh, 
put that boy out of his misery. He deserves it, and above all, 
you deserve it. I bet he’s on campus today. You should ask him 
to accompany you to that horror movie festival so I don’t have 
to come with you and sleep with the lights on for the next six 
months.” 


This time Anh blushed outright. She looked down at her 
hands, picked at her fingernails, and then she began to fiddle 
with the hem of her shorts before saying, “I don’t know. 
Maybe. I mean, if you really think that—” 


The sound of an alarm went off from Anh’s pocket, and she 
straightened to pull out her phone. “Crap, I’ve got a Diversity 
in STEM mentoring meeting and then I have to run two 
assays.” She stood, picking up her backpack. “Want to get 
together for lunch?” 


“Can’t. Have a TA meeting.” Olive smiled. “Maybe 
Jeremy’s free, though.” 


Anh rolled her eyes, but the corners of her mouth were 
curving up. It made Olive more than a little happy. So happy 


that she didn’t even flip her off when Anh turned around from 
the path and asked, “Is he blackmailing you?” 


“Huh?” 


“Carlsen. Is he blackmailing you? Did he find out that 
you’re an aberration and pee in the shower?” 


“First of all, it’s time efficient.” Olive glared. “Second, I 
find it oddly flattering that you’d think Carlsen would go to 
these ridiculous lengths to get me to date him.” 


“Anyone would, Ol. Because you’re awesome.” Anh 
grimaced before adding, “Except when you’re peeing in the 
shower.” 


JEREMY WAS ACTING weird. Which didn’t mean much, since 
Jeremy had always been a bit awkward, and having recently 
split from Olive to date her best friend was not going to make 
him any less so—but today he seemed even weirder than 
usual. He came into the campus coffee shop, a few hours after 
Olive’s conversation with Anh, and proceeded to stare at her 
for two good minutes. Then three. Then five. It was more 
attention than he’d ever paid to Olive—yes, including their 
dates. 


When it got borderline ridiculous, she lifted her eyes from 
her laptop and waved at him. Jeremy flushed, grabbed his latte 
from the counter, and found a table for himself. Olive went 
back to rereading her two-line email for the seventieth time. 


Today, 10:12 a.m. 

FROM: Olive-Smith@stanford.edu 

TO: Tom-Benton@harvard.edu 

SUBJECT: Re: Pancreatic Cancer Screening Project 


Dr. Benton, 


Thank you for your response. Chatting in person would be fantastic. 
What day will you be at Stanford? Let me know when it's most 
convenient for you to meet. 


Sincerely, 
Olive 


Not twenty minutes later, a fourth-year who worked with 
Dr. Holden Rodrigues over in pharmacology came in and took 
a seat next to Jeremy. They immediately started whispering to 
each other and pointing at Olive. Any other day she would 
have been concerned and a little upset, but Dr. Benton had 
already answered her email, which took priority over... 
anything else, really. 


Today, 10:26 a.m. 

FROM: Tom-Benton@harvard.edu 

TO: Olive-Smith@stanford.edu 

SUBJECT: Re: Pancreatic Cancer Screening Project 
Olive, 


I'm on sabbatical from Harvard this semester, so I'll be staying for 
several days. A Stanford collaborator and | were just awarded a 
large grant, and we'll be meeting to talk about setup, etc. Okay if 
we play it by ear once l'm there? 


Cheers, 
TB 


Sent from my iPhone 


Yes! She had several days to convince him to take on her 
project, which was much better than the ten minutes she’d 
originally anticipated. Olive fist-pumped—which led to 
Jeremy and his friend staring at her even more weirdly. What 
was up with them, anyway? Did she have toothpaste on her 
face or something? Who cared? She was going to meet Tom 
Benton and convince him to take her on. Pancreatic cancer, 
I’m coming for you. 


She was in an excellent mood until two hours later, when 
she entered the biology TA meeting and a sudden silence 
dropped in the room. About fifteen pairs of eyes fixed on her 
—wnot a reaction she was accustomed to receiving. 


“Uh—hi?” 


A couple of people said hi back. Most averted their gazes. 
Olive told herself that she was just imagining things. Must be 
low blood sugar. Or high. One of the two. 


“Hey, Olive.” A seventh-year who had never before 
acknowledged her existence moved his backpack and freed the 
seat next to his. “How are you?” 


“Good.” She sat down gingerly, trying to keep the 
suspicion from her tone. “Um, you?” 


“Great.” 


There was something about his smile. Something salacious 
and fake. Olive was considering asking about it when the head 
TA managed to get the projector to work and called everyone’s 
attention to the meeting. 


After that, things became even weirder. Dr. Aslan stopped 
by the lab just to ask Olive if there was anything she’d like to 
talk about; Chase, a grad in her lab, let her use the PCR 
machine first, even though he usually hoarded it like a third 
grader with his last piece of Halloween candy; the lab manager 
winked at Olive as he handed her a stack of blank paper for the 
printer. And then she met Malcolm in the all-gender restroom, 
completely by chance, and suddenly everything made sense. 


“You sneaky monster,” he hissed. His black eyes were 
almost comically narrow. “I’ve been texting you all day.” 


“Oh.” Olive patted the back pocket of her jeans, and then 
the front one, trying to remember the last time she had seen 
her phone. “I think I might have left my phone at home.” 


“I cannot believe it.” 

“Believe what?” 

“I cannot believe you.” 

“I don’t know what you’re talking about.” 

“I thought we were friends.” 

“We are.” 

“Good friends.” 

“We are. You and Anh are my best friends. What—” 


“Clearly not, if I had to hear it from Stella, who heard it 
from Jess, who heard it from Jeremy, who heard it from Anh 


99 


“Hear what?” 


c6 


who heard it from I don’t even know who. And I 
thought we were friends.” 


Something icy crawled its way up Olive’s back. Could it 
be... No. No, it couldn’t be. “Hear what?” 


“I’m done. I’m letting the cockroaches eat you. And I’m 
changing my Netflix password.” 


Oh no. “Malcolm. Hear what?” 


“That you are dating Adam Carlsen.” 


OLIVE HAD NEVER been in Carlsen’s lab, but she knew where to 
find it. It was the biggest, most functional research space in the 
whole department, coveted by all and a never-ending source of 
resentment toward Carlsen. She had to swipe her badge once 
and then once more to access it (she rolled her eyes both 
times). The second door opened directly onto the lab space, 


and maybe it was because he was as tall as Mount Everest and 
his shoulders were just as large, but Carlsen was the very first 
thing she noticed. He was peering at a Southern blot next to 
Alex, a grad who was one year ahead of Olive, but he turned 
toward the entrance the moment she came in. 


Olive smiled weakly at him—mainly out of relief at having 
found him. 


It was going to be all right. She was going to explain to 
him what Malcolm had told her, and without a doubt he was 
going to find the situation categorically unacceptable and fix it 
for the both of them, because Olive could not spend her next 
three years surrounded by people who thought that she was 
dating Adam freaking Carlsen. 


The problem was, Carlsen wasn’t the only one to notice 
Olive. There were over a dozen benches in the lab, and at least 
ten people working at them. Most of them—all of them—were 
staring at Olive. Probably because most of them—all of them 
—had heard that Olive was dating their boss. 


Fuck her life. 


“Can I talk to you for a minute, Dr. Carlsen?” Rationally, 
Olive knew that the lab was not furnished in a way that made 
echoing possible. Still, she felt as though her words bounced 
off the walls and repeated about four times. 


Carlsen nodded, nonplussed, and handed the Southern blot 
to Alex before heading in her direction. He appeared either 
unaware or uncaring that approximately two-thirds of his lab 
members were gaping at him. The remaining ones seemed to 
be on the verge of a hemorrhagic stroke. 


He led Olive to a meeting room just outside the main lab 
space, and she followed him silently, trying not to dwell on the 
fact that a lab full of people who thought that she and Carlsen 
were dating had just seen them enter a private room. Alone. 


This was the worst. The absolute worst. 


9 


“Everyone knows,” she blurted out as soon as the door 


closed behind her. 


He studied her for a moment, looking puzzled. “Are you 
okay?” 


“Everyone knows. About us.” 


He cocked his head, crossing his arms over his chest. It had 
been barely a day since they’d last talked, but apparently long 
enough for Olive to have forgotten his . . . his presence. Or 
whatever it was that made her feel like she was small and 
delicate whenever he was around. “Us?” 


“Us.” 
He seemed confused, so Olive elaborated. 


“Us, dating—not that we’re dating, but Anh clearly thought 
so, and she told . . .” She realized that the words were 
tumbling out and forced herself to slow down. “Jeremy. And 
he told everyone, and now everyone knows. Or they think they 
know, even though there’s absolutely nothing to know. As you 
and I know.” 


He took it in for a moment and then nodded slowly. “And 
when you say everyone... ?” 


“I mean everyone.” She pointed in the direction of his lab. 
“Those people? They know. The other grads? They know. 
Cherie, the department secretary? She totally knows. Gossip in 
this department is the worst. And they all think that I am 
dating a professor.” 


“I see,” he said, seeming strangely unbothered by this 
clusterfuck. It should have calmed Olive down, but it only had 
the effect of driving her panic up a notch. 


“I am sorry this happened. So sorry. This is all my fault.” 
She wiped a hand down her face. “But I didn’t think that... . I 


understand why Anh would tell Jeremy—lI mean, getting those 
two together was the whole point of this charade—but .. . 
Why would Jeremy tell anyone?” 


Carlsen shrugged. “Why wouldn’t he?” 
She looked up. “What do you mean?” 


“A grad student dating a faculty member seems like an 
interesting piece of information to share.” 


Olive shook her head. “It’s not that interesting. Why would 
people be interested?” 


He lifted one eyebrow. “Someone once told me that 
‘Gossip in this department is the wor—’”’ 


“Okay, okay. Point taken.” She took a deep breath and 
started pacing, trying to ignore the way Carlsen was studying 
her, how relaxed he looked, arms across his chest while 
leaning against the conference table. He was not supposed to 
be calm. He was supposed to be incensed. He was a known 
dick with a reputation for arrogance—the idea of people 
thinking that he was dating a nobody should be mortifying to 
him. The burden of freaking out should not be falling on Olive 
alone. 


“This is— We need to do something, of course. We need to 
tell people that this is not true and that we made it all up. 
Except that they’ll think that I’m crazy, and maybe that you 
are, too, so we have to come up with some other story. Yes, 
okay, we need to tell people we’re not together anymore—” 


“And what will Anh and what’s-his-face do?” 
Olive stopped pacing. “Uh?” 


“Won’t your friends feel bad about dating if they think 
we’re not together? Or that you lied to them?” 


She hadn’t thought of that. “I— Maybe. Maybe, but—” 


It was true that Anh had seemed happy. Maybe she had 
already invited Jeremy to accompany her to that movie festival 
—possibly right after telling him about Olive and Carlsen, 
damn her. But this was exactly what Olive had wanted. 


“Are you going to tell her the truth?” 


She let out a panicked sound. “I can’t. Not now.” God, why 
did Olive ever agree to date Jeremy? She wasn’t even into 
him. Yes, the Irish accent and the ginger hair were cute, but 
not worth any of this. “Maybe we can tell people that I broke 
up with you?” 


“That’s very flattering,’ Dr. Carlsen deadpanned. She 
couldn’t quite figure out if he was joking. 


“Fine. We can say that you broke up with me.” 


“Because that sounds credible,” he said drily, almost below 
his breath. She was not sure she’d heard him correctly and had 
no idea what he might mean, but she was starting to feel very 
upset. Fine, she had been the one to kiss him first—God, she’d 
kissed Adam Carlsen; this was her life; these were her choices 
—but his actions in the break room the day before surely 
hadn’t helped matters. He could at least display some concern. 
There was no way he was okay with everyone believing that 
he was attracted to some random girl with one point five 
publications—yes, that paper she had revised and resubmitted 
three weeks ago counted as half. 


“What if we tell people that it was a mutual breakup?” 
He nodded. “Sounds good.” 
Olive perked up. “Really? Great, then! We’ Il—” 


“We could ask Cherie to add it to the departmental 
newsletter.” 


“What?” 


“Or do you think a public announcement before seminar 
would be better?” 


“No. No, it’s—” 


“Maybe we should ask IT to put it on the Stanford home 
page. That way people would know—” 


“Okay, okay, fine! I get it.” 


He looked at her evenly for a moment, and when he spoke, 
his tone was reasonable in a way she would never have 
expected of Adam “Ass” Carlsen. “If what bothers you is that 
people are talking about you dating a professor, the damage is 
done, I’m afraid. Telling everyone that we broke up is not 
going to undo the fact that they think we dated.” 


Olive’s shoulders slumped. She hated that he was right. 
“Okay, then. If you have any ideas on how to fix this mess, by 
all means I am open to—” 


“You could let them go on thinking it.” 


For a moment, she thought she hadn’t heard him correctly. 
“W-What?” 


“You can let people go on thinking that we’re dating. It 
solves your problem with your friend and what’s-his-face, and 
you don’t have much to lose, since it sounds like froma... 
reputation standpoint”—he said the word “reputation” rolling 
his eyes a little, as if the concept of caring about what others 
thought were the dumbest thing since homeopathic antibiotics 
—‘things cannot get any worse for you.” 


This was . . . Out of everything . . . In her life, Olive had 
never, she had never... 


“What?” she asked again, feebly. 
He shrugged. “Seems like a win-win to me.” 


It so did not, to Olive. It seemed like a lose-lose, and then 
lose again, and then lose some more, type of situation. It 


seemed insane. 


“You mean . . . forever?” She thought her voice came out 
whiny, but it was possible that it was just an effect of the blood 
pounding in her head. 


“That sounds excessive. Maybe until your friends are not 
dating anymore? Or until they’re more settled? I don’t know. 
Whatever works best, I guess.” He was serious about this. He 
was not joking. 


“Are you not. . .” Olive had no idea how to even ask it. 
“Married, or something?” He must have been in his early 
thirties. He had a fantastic job; he was tall with thick, wavy 
black hair, clearly smart, even attractive looking; he was built. 
Yeah, he was a moody dick, but some women wouldn’t mind 
it. Some women might even like it. 


He shrugged. “My wife and the twins won’t mind.” 
Oh, shit. 


Olive felt a wave of heat wash over her. She blushed 
crimson and then almost died of shame, because— God, she 
had forced a married man, a father, to kiss her. Now people 
thought that he was having an affair. His wife was probably 
crying into her pillow. His kids would grow up with horrible 
daddy issues and become serial killers. 


“I... Oh my God, I didn’t— I am so sorry—” 
“Just kidding.” 

“I really had no idea that you—” 

“Olive. I was joking. I’m not married. No kids.” 


A wave of relief crashed into her. Followed by just as much 
anger. “Dr. Carlsen, this is not something you should joke—” 


“You really need to start calling me Adam. Since we’ve 
reportedly been dating for a while.” 


Olive exhaled slowly, pinching the bridge of her nose. 
“Why would you even— What would you even get out of 
this?” 


“Out of what?” 


“Pretending to date me. Why do you care? What’s in it for 
you?” 


Dr. Carlsen—Adam—opened his mouth, and for a moment 
Olive had the impression that he was going to say something 
important. But then he averted his gaze, and all that came out 
was “It would help you out.” He hesitated for a moment. “And 
I have my own reasons.” 


She narrowed her eyes. “What reasons?” 
“Reasons.” 

“If it’s criminal, I’d rather not be involved.” 
He smiled a bit. “It’s not.” 


“If you don’t tell me, I have no choice but to assume that it 
entails kidnapping. Or arson. Or embezzlement.” 


He seemed preoccupied for a moment, fingertips 
drumming against a large biceps. It considerably strained his 
shirt. “If I tell you, it cannot leave this room.” 


“I think we can both agree that nothing that has happened 
in this room should ever leave it.” 


“Good point,” he conceded. He paused. Sighed. Chewed on 
the inside of his cheek for a second. Sighed again. 


“Okay,” he finally said, sounding like a man who knew that 
he was going to regret speaking the second he opened his 
mouth. “I’m considered a flight risk.” 


“Flight risk?” God, he was a felon on parole. A jury of his 
peers had convicted him for crimes against grad students. He’d 


probably whacked someone on the head with a microscope for 
mislabeling peptide samples. “So it is something criminal.” 


“What? No. The department suspects that I’m making 
plans to leave Stanford and move to another institution. 
Normally it wouldn’t bother me, but Stanford has decided to 
freeze my research funds.” 


“Oh.” Not what she’d thought. Not at all. “Can they?” 


“Yes. Well, up to one-third of them. The reasoning is that 
they don’t want to fund the research and further the career of 
someone who—they believe—is going to leave anyway.” 


“But if it’s only one-third—” 


“Its millions of dollars,” he said levelly. “That I had 
earmarked for projects that I planned to finish within the next 
year. Here, at Stanford. Which means that I need those funds 
soon.” 


“Oh.” Come to think of it, Olive had been hearing 
scuttlebutt about Carlsen being recruited by other universities 
since her first year. A few months earlier there had even been a 
rumor that he might go work for NASA. “Why do they think 
that? And why now?” 


“A number of reasons. The most relevant is that a few 
weeks ago I was awarded a grant—a very large grant—with a 
scientist at another institution. That institution had tried to 
recruit me in the past, and Stanford sees the collaboration as 
an indication that I am planning to accept.” He hesitated 
before continuing. “More generally, I have been made aware 
that the . . . optics are that I have not put down roots because I 
want to be able to flee Stanford at the drop of a hat.” 


“Roots?” 


“Most of my grads will be done within the year. I have no 
extended family in the area. No wife, no children. I’m 
currently renting—I’d have to buy a house just to convince the 


department that I’m committed to staying,” he said, clearly 
irritated. “If I was in a relationship . . . that would really help.” 


Okay. That made sense. But. “Have you considered getting 
a real girlfriend?” 


His eyebrow lifted. “Have you considered getting a real 
date?” 


“Touché.” 


Olive fell silent and studied him for a few moments, letting 
him study her in return. Funny how she used to be scared of 
him. Now he was the only person in the world who knew 
about her worst fuckup ever, and it was hard to feel 
intimidated—even harder, after discovering that he was the 
kind of person who’d be desperate enough to pretend to date 
someone to get his research funds back. Olive was sure that 
she would do the exact same for the opportunity to finish her 
study on pancreatic cancer, which made Adam seem oddly ... 
relatable. And if he was relatable, then she could go ahead and 
fake-date him, right? 


No. Yes. No. What? She was crazy for even considering 
this. She was certifiably mental. And yet she found herself 
saying, “It would be complicated.” 


“What would be?” 
“To pretend that we’re dating.” 


“Really? It would be complicated to make people think that 
we're dating?” 

Oh, he was impossible. “Okay, I see your point. But it 
would be hard to do so convincingly for a prolonged period.” 


He shrugged. “We’ll be fine, as long as we say hi to each 
other in the hallways and you don’t call me Dr. Carlsen.” 


“I don’t think people who are dating just . . . say hi to each 
other.” 


“What do people who are dating do?” 


It beat Olive. She had gone on maybe five dates in her life, 
including the ones with Jeremy, and they had ranged from 
moderately boring to anxiety inducing to horrifying (mostly 
when a guy had monologued about his grandmother’s hip 
replacement in frightening detail). She would have loved to 
have someone in her life, but she doubted it was in store for 
her. Maybe she was unlovable. Maybe spending so many years 
alone had warped her in some fundamental way and that was 
why she seemed to be unable to develop a true romantic 
connection, or even the type of attraction she often heard 
others talk about. In the end, it didn’t really matter. Grad 
school and dating went poorly together, anyway, which was 
probably why Dr. Adam Carlsen, MacArthur Fellow and 
genius extraordinaire, was standing here at thirtysomething 
years old, asking Olive what people did on dates. 


Academics, ladies and gentlemen. 


“Um... things. Stuff.” Olive racked her brain. “People go 
out and do activities together. Like apple picking, or those 
Paint and Sip things.” Which are idiotic, Olive thought. 


“Which are idiotic,’ Adam said, gesturing dismissively 
with those huge hands of his. “You could just go to Anh and 
tell her that we went out and painted a Monet. Sounds like 
she’d take care of letting everyone else know.” 


“Okay, first of all, it was Jeremy. Let’s agree to blame 
Jeremy. And it’s more than that,” Olive insisted. “People who 
date, they—they talk. A lot. More than just greetings in the 
hallway. They know each other’s favorite colors, and where 
they were born, and they . . . they hold hands. They kiss.” 


Adam pressed his lips together as if to suppress a smile. 
“We could never do that.” 


A fresh wave of mortification crashed into Olive. “I am 
sorry about the kiss. I really didn’t think, and—” 


He shook his head. “It’s fine.” 


He did seem uncharacteristically indifferent to the 
situation, especially for a guy who was known to freak out 
when people got the atomic number of selenium wrong. No, 
he wasn’t indifferent. He was amused. 


Olive cocked her head. “Are you enjoying this?” 


“ ‘Enjoying’ is probably not the right word, but you have to 
admit that it’s quite entertaining.” 


She had no idea what he was talking about. There was 
nothing entertaining about the fact that she had randomly 
kissed a faculty member because he was the only person in the 
hallway and that, as a consequence of that spectacularly idiotic 
action, everyone thought she was dating someone she’d met 
exactly twice before today— 


She burst into laughter and folded into herself before her 
train of thought was even over, overwhelmed by the sheer 
improbability of the situation. This was her life. These were 
the results of her actions. When she could finally breathe 
again, her abs hurt and she had to wipe her eyes. “This is the 
worst.” 


He was smiling, staring at her with a strange light in his 
eyes. And would you look at that: Adam Carlsen had dimples. 
Cute ones. “Yep.” 


“And it’s all my fault.” 


“Pretty much. I kind of yanked Anh’s chain yesterday, but 
yeah, I’d say that it’s mostly your fault.” 


Fake dating. Adam Carlsen. Olive would have to be a 
lunatic. “Wouldn’t it be a problem that you’re faculty and I’m 
a graduate student?” 


He tilted his head, going serious. “It wouldn’t look great, 
but I don’t think so, no. Since I have no authority whatsoever 


over you and am not involved in your supervision. But I can 
ask around.” 


It was an epically bad idea. The worst idea ever entertained 
in the epically bad history of bad ideas. Except that it really 
would solve this current problem of hers, as well as some of 
Adam’s, in exchange for saying hi to him once a week and 
making an effort not to call him Dr. Carlsen. It seemed like a 
pretty good deal. 


“Can I think about it?” 
“Of course,” he said calmly. Reassuringly. 


She hadn’t thought he’d be like this. After hearing all the 
stories, and seeing him walk around with that perpetual frown 
of his, she really hadn’t thought he’d be like this. Even if she 
didn’t quite know what this even meant. 


“And thank you, I guess. For offering. Adam.” She added 
the last word like an afterthought. Trying it out on her lips. It 
felt weird, but not too weird. 


After a long pause, he nodded. “No problem. Olive.” 


Chapter Three 


ef HYPOTHESIS: A private conversation with Adam Carlsen will 
become 150 percent more awkward after the word “sex” is 
uttered. By me. 


Three days later, Olive found herself standing in front of 
Adam’s office. 


She’d never been there before, but she had no problem 
finding it. The student scurrying out with misty eyes and a 
terrified expression was a dead giveaway, not to mention that 
Adam’s door was the only one in the hallway completely 
devoid of pictures of kids, pets, or significant others. Not even 
a copy of his article that had made the cover of Nature 
Methods, which she knew about from looking him up on 
Google Scholar the previous day. Just dark brown wood and a 
metal plaque that read: Adam J. Carlsen, Ph.D. 


Maybe the J stood for “Jackass.” 


Olive had felt a bit like a creep the night before, scrolling 
down his faculty web page and going through his list of ten 
million publications and research grants, staring at a picture of 
him clearly taken in the middle of a hiking trip and not by 
Stanford’s official photographer. Still, she’d quickly quashed 
the feeling, telling herself that a thorough academic 
background check was only logical before embarking on a 
fake-dating relationship. 


She took a deep breath before knocking and then another 
between Adam’s “Come in” and the moment she finally 
managed to force herself to open the door. When she entered 
the office, he didn’t immediately look up and continued typing 


on his iMac. “My office hours were over five minutes ago, so 


99 


“It’s me.” 


His hands halted, hovering half an inch or so above the 
keyboard. Then he turned his chair toward her. “Olive.” 


There was something about the way he talked. Maybe it 
was an accent, maybe just a quality of his voice. Olive didn’t 
quite know what, but it was there, in the way he said her name. 
Precise. Careful. Deep. Unlike anyone else. Familiar— 
impossibly so. 


“What did you say to her?” she asked, trying not to care 
about how Adam Carlsen spoke. “The girl who ran out in 
tears?” 


It took him a moment to remember that less than sixty 
seconds ago there had been someone else in the office— 
someone whom he clearly made cry. “I just gave her feedback 
on something she wrote.” 


Olive nodded, silently thanking all the gods that he was not 
her adviser and never would be, and studied her surroundings. 
He had a corner office, of course. Two windows that together 
must total seventy thousand square meters of glass, and so 
much light, just standing in the middle of the room would cure 
twenty people’s seasonal depression. It made sense, what with 
all the grant money he brought in, what with the prestige, that 
he’d been given a nice space. Olive’s office, on the other hand, 
had no windows and smelled funny, probably because she 
shared it with three other Ph.D. students, even though it was 
meant to accommodate two at the most. 


“I was going to email you. I talked to the dean earlier 
today,” Adam told her, and she looked back at him. 


He was gesturing to the chair in front of his desk. Olive 
pulled it back and took a seat. 


“About you.” 


“Oh.” Olive’s stomach dropped. She’d much rather the 
dean didn’t know about her existence. Then again, she’d also 
rather not be in this room with Adam Carlsen, have the 
semester begin in a handful of days, have climate change be a 
thing. And yet. 


“Well, about us,” he amended. “And socialization 
regulations.” 


“What did she say?” 


“There’s nothing against you and me dating, since I’m not 
your adviser.” 


A mix of panic and relief flooded through Olive. 


“However, there are some issues to consider. I won’t be 
able to collaborate with you in any formal capacity. And I’m 
part of the program’s awards committee, which means that I’ Il 
have to excuse myself if you are nominated for fellowships or 
similar opportunities.” 


She nodded. “Fair enough.” 
“And I absolutely cannot be part of your thesis committee.” 


Olive huffed out a laugh. “That won’t be a problem. I 
wasn’t going to ask you to be on my committee.” 


He narrowed his eyes. “Why not? You study pancreatic 
cancer, right?” 


“Yep. Early detection.” 


“Then your work would benefit from the perspective of a 
computational modeler.” 


“Yeah, but there are other computational modelers in the 
department. And Pd like to eventually graduate, ideally 
without sobbing in a bathroom stall after each committee 
meeting.” 


He glared at her. 


Olive shrugged. “No offense. I’m a simple girl, with simple 
needs.” 


To that, he lowered his gaze to his desk, but not before 
Olive could see the corner of his mouth twitch. When he 
looked up again, his expression was serious. “So, have you 
decided?” 


She pressed her lips together as he watched her calmly. She 
took a deep breath before saying, “Yes. Yes, I... I want to do 
it. It’s a good idea, actually.” 


For so many reasons. It would get Anh and Jeremy off her 
back, but also . . . also everyone else. It was as if since the 
rumor had begun to spread, people had been too intimidated 
by Olive to give her the usual shit. The other TAs had quit 
trying to switch her nice 2:00 p.m. sections with their 
horrifying 8:00 a.m. ones, her lab mates had stopped cutting in 
front of her in the line for the microscope, and two different 
faculty members Olive had been trying to get ahold of for 
weeks had finally deigned to answer her emails. It felt a little 
unfair to exploit this huge misunderstanding, but academia 
was a lawless land and Olive’s life in it had been nothing but 
miserable for the past two years. She had learned to grab 
whatever she could get away with. And if some—okay, if most 
of the grads in the department looked at her suspiciously 
because she was dating Adam Carlsen, so be it. Her friends 
seemed to be largely fine with this, if a little bemused. 


Except for Malcolm. He’d been shunning her like she had 
the pox for three solid days. But Malcolm was Malcolm—he’d 
come around. 


“Very well, then.” He was completely expressionless— 
almost too expressionless. Like it was no big deal and he 
didn’t care either way; like if she’d said no, it wouldn’t have 
changed anything for him. 


“Though, I’ve been thinking about this a lot.” 
He waited patiently for her to continue. 


“And I think that it would be best if we laid down some 
ground rules. Before starting.” 


“Ground rules?” 


“Yes. You know. What we are allowed and not allowed to 
do. What we can expect from this arrangement. I think that’s 
pretty standard protocol, before embarking on a fake-dating 
relationship.” 


He tilted his head. “Standard protocol?” 
“Yup.” 

“How many times have you done this?” 
“Zero. But I am familiar with the trope.” 
“The ... what?” He blinked at her, confused. 


Olive ignored him. “Okay.” She inhaled deeply and lifted 
her index finger. “First of all, this should be a strictly on- 
campus arrangement. Not that I think you’d want to meet me 
off campus, but just in case you were planning to kill two birds 
with one stone, I’m not going to be your last-minute backup if 
you need to bring a date home for Christmas, or—” 


“Hanukkah.” 
“What?” 


“My family is more likely to celebrate Hanukkah than 
Christmas.” He shrugged. “Though I’m unlikely to celebrate 
either.” 


“Oh.” Olive pondered it for a moment. “I guess this is 
something your fake girlfriend should know.” 


The ghost of a smile appeared on his mouth, but he said 
nothing. 


“Okay. Second rule. Actually, it could be interpreted as an 
extension of the first rule. But’—Olive bit into her lip, willing 
herself to bring it up—“no sex.” 


For several moments he simply didn’t move. Not even a 
millimeter. Then his lips parted, but no sound came out, and 
that’s when Olive realized that she had just rendered Adam 
Carlsen speechless. Which would have been funny any other 
day, but the fact that he seemed dumbfounded by Olive not 
wanting to include sex in their fake-dating relationship made 
her stomach sink. 


Had he assumed that they would? Was it something she’d 
said? Should she explain that she’d had very little sex in her 
life? That for years she’d wondered whether she was asexual 
and she had realized only recently that she might be able to 
experience sexual attraction, but only with people she trusted 
deeply? That if for some inexplicable reason Adam wanted to 
have sex with her, she wasn’t going to be able to go through 
with it? 


“Listen”—she made to stand from the chair, panic rising in 
her throat—“I’m sorry, but if one of the reasons you offered to 
fake-date is that you thought that we would—” 


“No.” The word half exploded out of him. He looked 
genuinely appalled. “I’m shocked that you’d even feel the 
need to bring it up.” 


“Oh.” Olive’s cheeks heated at the indignation in his voice. 
Right. Of course he didn’t expect that. Or even want that, with 
her. Look at him—why would he? “I’m sorry, I didn’t mean to 
assume—” 


“No, it makes sense to be up-front. I was just surprised.” 


“I know.” Olive nodded. Honestly, she was a little 
surprised, too. That she was sitting in Adam Carlsen’s office, 
talking about sex—not the meiosis kind of sex, but potential 


sexual intercourse between the two of them. “Sorry. I didn’t 
mean to make things weird.” 


“It’s okay. This whole thing is weird.” The silence between 
them stretched, and Olive noticed that he was blushing faintly. 
Just a dusting of red, but he looked so . . . Olive couldn’t stop 
staring. 


“No sex,” he confirmed with a nod. 


She had to clear her throat and shake herself out of 
inspecting the shape and color of his cheekbones. 


“No sex,” she repeated. “Okay. Third. It’s not really a rule, 
but here goes: I won’t date anyone else. As in real dating. It 
would be messy and complicate everything and . . .” Olive 
hesitated. Should she tell him? Was it too much information? 
Did he need to know? Oh, well. Why not, at this point? It 
wasn’t like she hadn’t kissed the man, or brought up sex in his 
place of work. “I don’t date, anyway. Jeremy was an 
exception. I’ve never . . . I’ve never dated seriously before, 
and it’s probably for the best. Grad school is stressful enough, 
and I have my friends, and my project on pancreatic cancer, 
and honestly there’s better things to use my time for.” The last 
few words came out more defensively than she’d intended. 


Adam just stared and said nothing. 


“But you can date, of course,” she added hastily. “Though 
I'd appreciate it if you could avoid telling people in the 
department, just so I don’t look like an idiot and you don’t 
look like you’re cheating on me and rumors don’t balloon out 
of control. It would benefit you, too, since you’re trying to 
look like you’re in a committed relationship—” 


“I won't.” 


“Okay. Great. Thanks. I know lying by omission can be a 
pain, but—” 


“I mean, I won’t date someone else.” 


There was a certainty, a finality in his tone that took her by 
surprise. She could only nod, even though she wanted to 
protest that he couldn’t possibly know, even though a million 
questions surfaced in her mind. Ninety-nine percent of them 
were inappropriate and not her business, so she shooed them 
away. 


“Okay. Fourth. We obviously can’t keep on doing this 
forever, so we should give ourselves a deadline.” 


His lips pressed together. “When would that be?” 


“I’m not sure. A month or so would probably be enough to 
convince Anh that I’m firmly over Jeremy. But it might not be 
enough on your end, so . . . you tell me.” 


He mulled it, and then nodded once. “September twenty- 
ninth.” 


It was a little over a month from now. But also. . . “That’s 
a weirdly specific date.” Olive racked her head, trying to 
figure out why it could be meaningful. The only thing that 
came to mind was that she’d be in Boston that week for the 
annual biology conference. 


“It’s the day after the department’s final budget review. If 
they don’t release my funds by then, they won’t release them 
at all.” 


“I see. Well, then, let’s agree that on September twenty- 
ninth we part ways. Pll tell Anh that our breakup was 
amicable but that I’m a little sad about it because I still have a 
bit of a crush on you.” She grinned at him. “Just so she won’t 
suspect that I’m still hung up on Jeremy. Okay.” She took a 
deep breath. “Fifth and last.” 


This was the tricky one. The one she was afraid he’d object 
to. She noticed that she was wringing her hands and placed 
them firmly in her lap. 


“For this to work we should probably .. . do things 
together. Every once in a while.” 


“Things?” 
“Things. Stuff.” 
“Stuff,” he repeated dubiously. 


“Yep. Stuff. What do you do for fun?” He was probably 
into something atrocious, like cow-tipping excursions or 
Japanese beetle fighting. Maybe he collected porcelain dolls. 
Maybe he was an avid geocacher. Maybe he frequented vaping 
conventions. Oh God. 


“Fun?” he repeated, like he’d never heard the word before. 
“Yeah. What do you do when you’re not at work?” 


The length of time that passed between Olive’s question 
and his answer was alarming. “Sometimes I work at home, 
too. And I work out. And I sleep.” 


She had to actively stop herself from face-palming. “Um, 
great. Anything else?” 


“What do you do for fun?” he asked, somewhat 
defensively. 


“Plenty of things. I...” Go to the movies. Though she 
hadn’t been since the last time Malcolm had dragged her. Play 
board games. But every single one of her friends was too busy 
lately, so not that, either. She’d participated in that volleyball 
tournament, but it had been over a year ago. 


“Um. I work out?” She would have loved to wipe that 
smug expression off his face. So much. “Whatever. We should 
do something together on a regular basis. I don’t know, maybe 
get coffee? Like, once a week? Just for ten minutes, at a place 
where people could easily see us. I know it sounds annoying 
and like a waste of time, but it’Il be super short, and it would 
make the fake dating more credible, and—” 


“Sure.” 
Oh. 


She’d thought it would take more convincing. A lot more. 
Then again, this was in his interest, too. He needed his 
colleagues to believe in their relationship if he was to cajole 
them into releasing his funding. 


“Okay. Um . . .” She forced herself to stop wondering why 
he was being so accommodating and tried to visualize her 
schedule. “How about Wednesday?” 


Adam angled his chair to face his computer and pulled up a 
calendar app. It was so full of colorful boxes that Olive felt a 
surge of vicarious anxiety. 


“It works before eleven a.m. And after six p.m.” 
“Ten?” 
He turned back to her. “Ten’s good.” 


“Okay.” She waited for him to type it in, but he made no 
move to. “Aren’t you going to add it to your calendar?” 


“PII remember,” he told her evenly. 


“Okay, then.” She made an effort to smile, and it felt 
relatively sincere. Way more sincere than any smile she’d ever 
thought she’d be able to muster in Adam Carlsen’s presence. 
“Great. Fake-dating Wednesday it is.” 


A line appeared between his eyebrows. “Why do you keep 
saying that?” 


“Saying what?” 
“ “Fake dating.’ Like it’s a thing.” 
“Because it is. Don’t you watch rom-coms?” 


He stared at her with a puzzled expression, until she 
cleared her throat and looked down at her knees. “Right.” God, 
they had nothing in common. They’d never find anything to 


talk about. Their ten-minute coffee breaks were going to be the 
most painful, awkward parts of her already painful, awkward 
weeks. 


But Anh was going to have her beautiful love story, and 
Olive wouldn’t have to wait for ages to use the electron 
microscope. That was all that mattered. 


She stood and thrust her hand out to him, figuring that 
every fake-dating arrangement deserved at least a handshake. 
Adam studied it hesitantly for a couple of seconds. Then he 
stood and clasped her fingers. He stared at their joined hands 
before meeting her eyes, and Olive ordered herself not to 
notice the heat of his skin, or how broad he was, or... 
anything else about him. When he finally let go, she had to 
make a conscious effort not to inspect her palm. 


Had he done something to her? It sure felt like it. Her flesh 
was tingling. 


“When do you want to start?” 


“How about next week?” It was Friday. Which meant that 
she had fewer than seven days to psychologically prepare for 
the experience of getting coffee with Adam Carlsen. She knew 
that she could do this—if she had worked her way up to a 
ninety-seventh percentile on the verbal portion of the GRE, 
she could do anything, or as good as—but it still seemed like a 
horrible idea. 


“Sounds good.” 


It was happening. Oh God. “Let’s meet at the Starbucks on 
campus. It’s where most of the grads get coffee—someone’s 
bound to spot us.” She headed for the door, pausing to glance 
back at Adam. “I guess Pll see you for fake-dating 
Wednesday, then?” 


He was still standing behind his desk, arms crossed on his 
chest. Looking at Olive. Looking entirely less irritated by this 


mess than she’d ever have expected. Looking . . . nice. “See 
you, Olive.” 


“PASS THE SALT.” 


Olive would have, but Malcolm looked like he was already 
salty enough. So she leaned her hip against the kitchen counter 
and folded her arms across her chest. “Malcolm.” 


“And the pepper.” 

“Malcolm.” 

“And the oil.” 

“Malcolm...” 

“Sunflower. Not that grape-seed crap.” 
“Listen. It’s not what you think—” 
“Fine. Pll get them myself.” 


To be fair, Malcolm had every right to be mad. And Olive 
did feel for him. He was one year ahead of her, and the scion 
of STEM royalty. The product of generations of biologists, 
geologists, botanists, physicists, and who knows what other - 
ists mixing their DNA and spawning little science machines. 
His father was a dean at some state school on the East Coast. 
His mother had a TED Talk on Purkinje cells with several 
million views on YouTube. Did Malcolm want to be in a Ph.D. 
program, headed for an academic career? Probably no. Did he 
have any other choice, considering the pressure his family had 
put on him since he was in diapers? Also no. 


Not to say that Malcolm was unhappy. His plan was to get 
his Ph.D., find a nice cushy industry job, and make lots of 
money working nine-to-five—which technically qualified as 
“being a scientist,’ which in turn was not something his 


parents would be able to object to. At least, not too 
strenuously. In the meantime, all he wanted was to have a grad 
school experience that was as un-traumatizing as possible. Out 
of everyone in Olive’s program, he was the one who best 
managed to have a life outside of grad school. He did things 
that were unimaginable to most grads, like cooking real food! 
Going for hikes! Meditating! Acting in a play! Dating like it 
was an Olympic sport! (“It is an Olympic sport, Olive. And I 
am training for gold.’’) 


Which was why when Adam forced Malcolm to throw out 
tons of data and redo half his study, it made for a very, very 
miserable few months. In retrospect, that might have been 
when Malcolm started wishing a plague on the Carlsen house 
(he had been rehearsing for Romeo and Juliet at the time). 


“Malcolm, can we please talk about this?” 
“We’re talking.” 


“No, you are cooking and I am just standing here, trying to 
get you to acknowledge that you are mad because Adam—” 


Malcolm turned away from his casserole, wagging his 
finger in Olive’s direction. “Do not say it.” 


“Do not say what?” 
“You know what.” 
“Adam Carl—?” 

“Do not say his name.” 


She threw her hands up. “This is crazy. It’s fake, 
Malcolm.” 


He went back to chopping the asparagus. “Pass the salt.” 
“Are you even listening? It’s not real.” 


“And the pepper, and the—” 


“The relationship, it’s fake. We’re not really dating. We’re 
pretending so people will think that we’re dating.” 


Malcolm’s hands stopped mid-chop. “What?” 
“You heard me.” 
“Is ita... friends-with-benefits arrangement? Because—” 


“No. It’s the opposite. There are no benefits. Zero benefits. 
Zero sex. Zero friends, too.” 


He stared at her, narrow-eyed. “To be clear, oral and butt 
stuff totally counts as sex—” 


“Malcolm.” 


He took a step closer, grabbing a dishrag to wipe his hands, 
nostrils flaring. “I’m scared to ask.” 


“I know it sounds ridiculous. He’s helping me out by 
pretending we’re together because I lied to Anh, and I need 
her to feel okay about dating Jeremy. It’s all fake. Adam and I 
have talked exactly’—she decided on the spot to omit any 
information pertinent to The Night—“three times, and I know 
nothing about him. Except that he’s willing to help me handle 
this situation, and I jumped at the chance.” 


Malcolm was making that face, the one he reserved for 
people who wore sandals paired with white socks. He could be 
a little scary, she had to admit. 


“This is . . . wow.” There was a vein pulsating on his 
forehead. “Ol, this is breathtakingly stupid.” 


“Maybe.” Yes. Yes, it was. “But it is what it is. And you 
have to support me in my idiocy, because you and Anh are my 
best friends.” 


“Isn’t Carlsen your best friend now?” 


“Come on, Malcolm. He’s an ass. But he’s actually been 
pretty nice to me, and—” 


“I’m not even—” He grimaced. “I’m not going to address 
this.” 


She sighed. “Okay. Don’t address this. You don’t have to. 
But can you just not hate me? Please? I know he’s been a 
nightmare to half the grads in the program, you included. But 
he’s helping me out. You and Anh are the only ones I care 
about knowing the truth. But I can’t tell Anh—” 


ce 


for obvious reasons.” 


c6 


for obvious reasons,” she finished at the same time, and 
smiled. He just shook his head disapprovingly, but his 
expression had softened. 


“Ol. You’re amazing. And kind, way too kind. You should 
find someone better than Carlsen. Someone to date for real.” 


“Yeah, right.” She rolled her eyes. “Because it went so well 
with Jeremy. Who, by the way, I only agreed to date following 
your advice! ‘Give the boy a chance,’ you said. ‘What could 
possibly go wrong?’ you said.” 


Malcolm glared, and she laughed. 


“Listen, I’m clearly bad at real dating. Maybe fake dating 
will be different. Maybe I’ve found my niche.” 


He sighed. “Does it have to be Carlsen? There are better 
faculty members to fake-date.” 


“Like who?” 
“I don’t know. Dr. McCoy?” 
“Didn’t her wife just give birth to triplets?” 


“Oh, yeah. What about Holden Rodrigues? He’s hot. Cute 
smile, too. I would know—he always smiles at me.” 


Olive burst into laughter. “I could never fake-date Dr. 
Rodrigues, not with how assiduously you’ve been thirsting 
after him for the past two years.” 


“I have, haven’t I? Did I ever tell you about the serious 
flirting that happened between us at the undergrad research 
fair? I’m pretty sure he winked at me multiple times from the 
other side of the room. Now, some say he just had something 
in his eye, but—” 


“Me. J said that he probably had something in his eye. And 
you tell me about it every other day.” 


“Right.” He sighed. “You know, Ol, I would have fake- 
dated you myself in a heartbeat, to spare you from goddamned 
Carlsen. I would have held hands with you, and given you my 
jacket when you were cold, and very publicly gifted you 
chocolate roses and teddy bears on Valentine’s Day.” 


How refreshing, to talk with someone who’d watched a 
rom-com. Or ten. “I know. But you also bring home a different 
person every week, and you love it, and I love that you love it. 
I don’t want to cramp your style.” 


“Fair.” Malcolm looked pleased—whether at the fact that 
he really did get around a fair bit or at Olive’s thorough 
understanding of his dating habits, she wasn’t sure. 


“Can you please not hate me, then?” 


He tossed the kitchen cloth onto the counter and stepped 
closer. “Ol. I could never hate you. You'll always be my 
kalamata.” He pulled her into his chest, hugging her tight. At 
the beginning, when they’d just met, Olive had been 
constantly disoriented by how physical he was, probably 
because it had been years since she’d experienced such 
affectionate contact. Now, Malcolm’s hugs were her happy 
place. 


She laid her head on his shoulder and smiled into the cotton 
of his T-shirt. “Thanks.” 


Malcolm held her tighter. 


“And I promise if I ever bring Adam home, Ill put a sock 
on my door— Ouch!” 


“You evil creature.” 


“I was kidding! Wait, don’t leave, I have something 
important to tell you.” 


He paused by the door, scowling. “I’ve reached my 
maximum daily intake of Carlsen-related conversation. 
Anything further will be lethal, so—” 


“Tom Benton, the cancer researcher from Harvard, reached 
out to me! It’s not decided yet, but he might be interested in 
having me in his lab next year.” 


“Oh my God.” Malcolm walked back to her, delighted. 
“Ol, this is amazing! I thought none of the researchers you 
contacted had gotten back to you?” 


“Not for the longest time. But now Benton has, and you 
know how famous and well-known he is. He probably has 
more research funds than I could ever dream of. It would be 


99 


“Fantastic. It would really be fantastic. Ol. Iam so proud of 
you.” Malcolm took her hands in his. His face-splitting grin 
slowly gentled. “And your mom would be so proud, too.” 


Olive looked away, blinking rapidly. She didn’t want to cry, 
not tonight. “Nothing is set in stone. P’ Il have to persuade him. 
It will involve quite a bit of politicking and going through the 
whole ‘pitch me your research’ bit. Which as you know is not 
my forte. It might still not work out—” 


“It will work out.” 


Right. Yes. She needed to be optimistic. She nodded, 
attempting a smile. 


“But even if it didn’t . . . she would still be proud.” 


Olive nodded again. When a single tear managed to slide 
down her cheek, she decided to let it be. 


Forty-five minutes later, she and Malcolm sat on their 
minuscule couch, arms pressed together, watching reruns of 
American Ninja Warrior while they ate a very undersalted 
veggie casserole. 


Chapter For 


ef HYPOTHESIS: Adam Carlsen and I have absolutely nothing in 
common, and having coffee with him will be twice as painful as 
a root canal. Without anesthesia. 


Olive arrived to the first fake-dating Wednesday late and in the 
foulest of moods, after a morning spent growling at her cheap, 
knockoff reagents for not dissolving, then not precipitating, 
then not sonicating, then not being enough for her to run her 
entire assay. 


She paused outside the coffee shop’s door and took a deep 
breath. She needed a better lab if she wanted to produce decent 
science. Better equipment. Better reagents. Better bacteria 
cultures. Better everything. Next week, when Tom Benton 
arrived, she had to be on top of her game. She needed to 
prepare her spiel, not waste time on a coffee she didn’t 
particularly want, with a person she most definitely didn’t 
want to talk to, halfway through her experimental protocol. 


Ugh. 


When she stepped inside the café, Adam was already there, 
wearing a black Henley that looked like it was ideated, 
designed, and produced specifically with the upper half of his 
body in mind. Olive was momentarily bemused, not so much 
that his clothes fit him well, but that she’d noticed what 
someone was wearing to begin with. It was not like her. She’d 
been seeing Adam traipse around the biology building for the 
better part of two years, after all, not to mention that in the 
past couple of weeks they’d spoken an inordinate amount of 
times. They had even kissed, if one counted what had 
happened on The Night as a proper kiss. It was dizzying and a 


little unsettling, the realization that sank into her as they got in 
line to order their coffee. 


Adam Carlsen was handsome. 


Adam Carlsen, with his long nose and wavy hair, with his 
full lips and angular face that shouldn’t have fit together but 
somehow did, was really, really, really handsome. Olive had 
no clue why it hadn’t registered before, or why what made her 
realize it was him putting on a plain black shirt. 


She willed herself to stare ahead at the drink menu instead 
of his chest. In the coffee shop, there were a total of three 
biology grad students, one pharmacology postdoc, and one 
undergraduate research assistant eyeing them. Perfect. 


“So. How are you?” she asked, because it was the thing to 
do. 


“Fine. You?” 
“Fine.” 


It occurred to Olive that maybe she hadn’t thought this 
through as thoroughly as she should have. Because being seen 
together might have been their goal, but standing next to each 
other in silence was not going to fool anyone into thinking that 
they were blissfully dating. And Adam was . . . well. He 
seemed unlikely to initiate any kind of conversation. 


“So.” Olive shifted her weight to the balls of her feet a 
couple of times. “What’s your favorite color?” 


He looked at her, confused. “What?” 

“Your favorite color.” 

“My favorite color?” 

“Yep.” 

There was a crease between his eyes. “I—don’t know?” 


“What do you mean you don’t know?” 


“They’re colors. They’re all the same.” 

“There must be one you like most.” 

“I don’t think so.” 

“Red?” 

“T don’t know.” 

“Yellow? Vomit green?” 

His eyes narrowed. “Why are you asking?” 

Olive shrugged. “It feels like something I should know.” 
“Why?” 


“Because. If someone tries to figure out whether we’re 
really dating, it might be one of the first questions they ask. 
Top five, for sure.” 


He studied her for a few seconds. “Does that seem like a 
likely scenario to you?” 


“About as likely as me fake-dating you.” 


He nodded, as if conceding her point. “Okay. Black, I 
guess.” 


She snorted. “Figures.” 

“What’s wrong with black?” He frowned. 

“It’s not even a color. It’s no colors, technically.” 

“It’s better than vomit green.” 

“No, it isn’t.” 

“Of course it is.” 

“Yeah, well. It suits your scion-of-darkness personality.” 
“What does that even—” 


“Good morning.” The barista smiled at them cheerfully. 
“What will you have today?” 


Olive smiled back, gesturing at Adam to order first. 


“Coffee.” He darted a glance at her before adding, 
sheepishly, “Black.” 


She had to duck her head to hide her smile, but when she 
glanced at him again, the corner of his mouth was curved 
upward. Which, she reluctantly admitted to herself, was not a 
bad look for him. She ignored it and ordered the most fatty, 
sugary thing on the drink menu, asking for extra whipped 
cream. She was wondering if she should try to make up for it 
by buying an apple, too, or if she should just lean into it and 
top it off with a cookie, when Adam took a credit card out of 
his wallet and held it to the cashier. 


“Oh, no. No, no, no. No.” Olive put her hand in front of his 
and lowered her voice. “You can’t pay for my stuff.” 


He blinked. “I can’t?” 
“That’s not the kind of fake relationship we’re having.” 
He looked surprised. “It isn’t?” 


“Nope.” She shook her head. “I would never fake-date a 
dude who thinks that he has to pay for my coffee just because 
he’s a dude.” 


He lifted an eyebrow. “I doubt a language exists in which 
the thing you just ordered could be referred to as ‘coffee.’” 


ç H ey— 9 


“And it’s not about me being a ‘dude’”—the word came 
out a touch pained—“but about you still being a grad student. 
And your yearly income.” 


For a moment she hesitated, wondering if she should be 
offended. Was Adam being his well-known ass self? Was he 
patronizing her? Did he think she was poor? Then she 
remembered that she was, in fact, poor, and that he probably 
made five times as much as her. She shrugged, adding a 


chocolate chip cookie, a banana, and a pack of gum to her 
coffee. To his credit, Adam said nothing and paid the resulting 
$21.39 without batting an eye. 


While they were waiting for their drinks, Olive’s mind 
began drifting off to her project and to whether she could 
convince Dr. Aslan to buy her better reagents soon. She looked 
distractedly around the coffee shop, finding that even though 
the research assistant, the postdoc, and one of the students 
were gone, two grads (one of whom serendipitously happened 
to work in Anh’s lab) were still sitting at a table by the door, 
glancing toward them every few minutes. Excellent. 


She leaned her hip against the counter and looked up at 
Adam. Thank God this thing was only going to be ten minutes 
a week, or she’d develop a permanent crick in her neck. 


“Where were you born?” she asked. 


“Is this another one of your green card marriage interview 
questions?” 


She giggled. He smiled in response, as if pleased to have 
made her laugh. Though it was certainly for some other 
reason. 


“Netherlands. The Hague.” 
“Oh. 99 


He leaned against the counter, too, directly in front of her. 
“Why ‘oh’?”’ 

“I don’t know.” Olive shrugged. “I think I expected... 
New York? Or maybe Kansas?” 


He shook his head. “My mother used to be a US 
ambassador to the Netherlands.” 


“Wow.” Weird, to imagine that Adam had a mother. A 
family. That before being tall and scary and infamous, he’d 
been a kid. Maybe he spoke Dutch. Maybe he had smoked 


herring for breakfast on the reg. Maybe his mother had wanted 
him to follow in her footsteps and become a diplomat, but his 
shiny personality had emerged and she’d given up on that 
dream. Olive found herself acutely eager to know more about 
his upbringing, which was... weird. Very weird. 


“Here you go.” Their drinks appeared on the counter. Olive 
told herself that the way the blond barista was obviously 
checking out Adam as he turned to retrieve a lid for his cup 
was none of her business. She also reminded herself that as 
curious as she was about his diplomat mother, how many 
languages he spoke, and whether he liked tulips, it was 
information that went well beyond their arrangement. 


People had seen them together. They were going to go back 
to their labs and tell improbable tales of Dr. Adam Carlsen and 
the random, unremarkable student they’d spotted him with. 
Time for Olive to go back to her science. 


She cleared her throat. “Well. This was fun.” 


He looked up from his cup, surprised. “Is fake-dating 
Wednesday over?” 


“Yep. Great job, team, now hit the showers. You’re free 
until next week.” Olive stabbed her straw into her drink and 
took a sip, feeling the sugar explode in her mouth. Whatever 
she’d ordered, it was disgustingly good. She was probably 
developing diabetes as she spoke. “P1 see you—” 


“Where were you born?” Adam asked before she could 
leave. 


Oh. They were doing this, then. He was probably just 
trying to be polite, and Olive sighed inwardly, thinking 
longingly of her lab bench. “Toronto.” 


“Right. You’re Canadian,” he said, like he’d already 
known. 


“Yep.” 


“When did you move here?” 
“Fight years ago. For college.” 


He nodded, as if storing up the information. “Why the US? 
Canada has excellent schools.” 


“I got a full ride.” It was true. If not the whole truth. 


He fidgeted with the cardboard cup holder. “Do you go 
back a lot?” 


“Not really, no.” Olive licked some whipped cream off her 
straw. She was puzzled when he immediately looked away 
from her. 


“Do you plan to move back home once you graduate?” 


She tensed. “Not if I can help it.” She had lots of painful 
memories in Canada, and her only family, the people she 
wanted nearby, were Anh and Malcolm, both US citizens. 
Olive and Anh had even made a pact that if Olive was ever on 
the verge of losing her visa, Anh would marry her. In 
hindsight, this entire fake-dating business with Adam was 
going to be great practice for when Olive leveled up and 
started defrauding the Department of Homeland Security in 
earnest. 


Adam nodded, taking a sip of his coffee. “Favorite color?” 


Olive opened her mouth to tell him her favorite color, 
which was so much better than his, and. . . “Dammit.” 


He gave her a knowing look. “Difficult, isn’t it?” 
“There are so many good ones.” 

“Yup.” 

“T’m going to go with blue. Light blue. No, wait!” 
“Mmm.” 


“Let’s say white. Okay, white.” 


He clucked his tongue. “You know, I don’t think I can 
accept that. White’s not really a color. More like all colors put 
together—” 


Olive pinched him on the fleshy part of his forearm. 


“Ow,” he said, clearly not in pain. With a sly smile, he 
waved goodbye and turned away, heading for the biology 
building. 


“Hey, Adam?” she called after him. 
He paused and looked back at her. 
“Thanks for buying me three days’ worth of food.” 


He hesitated and then nodded, once. That thing he was 
doing with his mouth—he was definitely smiling down at her. 
A little begrudgingly, but still. 


“My pleasure, Olive.” 


Today, 2:40 p.m. 

FROM: Tom-Benton@harvard.edu 

TO: Olive-Smith@stanford.edu 

SUBJECT: Re: Pancreatic Cancer Screening Project 
Olive, 


I'll be flying in on Tuesday afternoon. How about we meet on 
Wednesday around 3:00 p.m. in Aysegul Aslan’s lab? My 
collaborator can point me in its direction. 


TB 


Sent from my iPhone 


OLIVE WAS LATE for her second fake-dating Wednesday, too, but 
for different reasons—all Tom Benton related. 


First, she’d overslept after staying up late the previous 
night rehearsing how she was going to sell him her project. 
She’d repeated her spiel so many times that Malcolm had 
started finishing her sentences, and then, at 1:00 a.m., he’d 
hurled a nectarine at her and begged her to go practice in her 
room. Which she had, until 3:00 a.m. 


Then, in the morning, she’d realized that her usual lab 
outfit (leggings, ratty 5K T-shirt, and very, very messy bun) 
would probably not communicate “valuable future colleague” 
to Dr. Benton, and spent an excessive amount of time looking 
for something appropriate. Dress for success and all that. 


Finally, it occurred to her that she had no idea what Dr. 
Benton—arguably the most important person in her life at the 
moment, and yes, she was aware of how sad that sounded but 
decided not to dwell on it—even looked like. She looked him 
up on her phone and found out that he was somewhere in his 
late thirties, blond with blue eyes, and had very straight, very 
white teeth. When she arrived at the campus Starbucks, Olive 
was whispering to his Harvard headshot, “Please, let me come 
work in your lab.” Then she noticed Adam. 


It was an uncharacteristically cloudy day. Still August, but 
it almost felt like late fall. Olive glanced at him, and she 
immediately knew that he was in the nastiest of moods. That 
rumor of him throwing a petri dish against a wall because his 
experiment hadn’t worked out, or because the electron 
microscope needed repairs, or because something equally 
inconsequential had happened came to mind. She considered 
ducking under the table. 


Its okay, she told herself. This is worth it. Things with Anh 
were back to normal. Better than normal: she and Jeremy were 
officially dating, and last weekend Anh had showed up to 


beers-and-s’mores night wearing leggings and an oversize 
MIT sweater she’d clearly borrowed from him. When Olive 
had eaten lunch with the two of them the other day, it hadn’t 
even felt awkward. Plus, the first-, second-, and even third- 
year grads were too scared of Adam Carlsen’s “girlfriend” to 
steal Olive’s pipettes, which meant that she didn’t have to stuff 
them in her backpack and take them home for the weekend 
anymore. And she was getting some grade A free food out of 
this. She could take Adam Carlsen—yes, even this pitch- 
black-mood Adam Carlsen. For ten minutes a week, at the 
very least. 


“Hey.” She smiled. He responded with a look that exuded 
moodiness and existential angst. Olive took a fortifying breath. 
“How are you?” 


“Fine.” His tone was clipped, his expression tenser than 
usual. He was wearing a red plaid shirt and jeans, looking 
more like a wood-chopping lumberjack than a scholar 
pondering the mysteries of computational biology. She 
couldn’t help noticing the muscles and wondered again if he 
had his clothes custom-made. His hair was still a bit long but 
shorter than the previous week. It seemed a little surreal that 
she and Adam Carlsen were at a point where she was able to 
keep track of both his moods and his haircuts. 


“Ready to get coffee?” she chirped. 


He nodded distractedly, barely looking at her. On a table in 
the back, a fifth-year was glancing at them while pretending to 
clean the monitor of his laptop. 


“Sorry if I was late. I just—” 
“It’s fine.” 

“Did you have a good week?” 
“Fine.” 


Okay. “Um . . . did you do anything fun last weekend?” 


“I worked.” 


They got in line to order, and it was all Olive could do to 
stop herself from sighing. ““Weather’s been nice, right? Not too 
hot.” 


He grunted in response. 


It was starting to be a bit much. There was a limit to what 
Olive would do for this fake-dating relationship—even for a 
free mango Frappuccino. She sighed. “Is it because of the 
haircut?” 


That got his attention. Adam looked down at her, a vertical 
line deep between his eyebrows. “What?” 


“The mood. Is it because of the haircut?” 
“What mood?” 


Olive gestured broadly toward him. “This. The bad mood 
you’re in.” 


“I’m not in a bad mood.” 


She snorted—though that was probably not the right term 
for what she just did. It was too loud and derisive, more like a 
laugh. A snaugh. 


“What?” He frowned, unappreciative of her snaugh. 
“Come on.” 

“What?” 

“You ooze moodiness.” 


“I do not.” He sounded indignant, which struck her as 
oddly endearing. 


“You so do. I saw that face, and I immediately knew.” 
“You did not.” 


“I did. I do. But it’s fine, you’re allowed to be in a bad 
mood.” 


It was their turn, so she took a step forward and smiled at 
the cashier. 


“Good morning. lIl have a pumpkin spice latte. And that 
cream cheese danish over there. Yep, that one, thank you. 
And”—she pointed at Adam with her thumb—“he’ll have 
chamomile tea. No sugar,” she added cheerfully. She 
immediately took a few steps to the side, hoping to avoid 
damage in case Adam decided to throw a petri dish at her. She 
was surprised when he calmly handed his credit card to the 
boy behind the counter. Really, he wasn’t as bad as they made 
him out to be. 


“I hate tea,” he said. “And chamomile.” 
Olive beamed up at him. “That is unfortunate.” 
“You smart-ass.” 


He stared straight ahead, but she was almost certain that he 
was about to crack a smile. There was a lot to be said about 
him but not that he didn’t have a sense of humor. 


“So... not the haircut?” 


“Mm? Ah, no. It was a weird length. Getting in my way 
while I was running.” 


Oh. So he was a runner. Like Olive. “Okay. Great. Because 
it doesn’t look bad.” 


It looks good. As in, really good. You were probably one of 
the most handsome men I’d ever talked to last week, but now 
you look even better. Not that I care about these things. I dont 
care at all. I rarely notice guys, and I’m not sure why I’m 
noticing you, or your hair, or your clothes, or how tall and 
broad you are. I really dont get it. I never care. Usually. Ugh. 


“I...” He seemed flustered for a second, his lips moving 
without making a sound as he looked for an appropriate 
response. Then, out of the blue, he said, “I talked with the 


department chair this morning. He’s still refusing to release 
my research funds.” 


“Oh.” She cocked her head. “I thought they weren’t due to 
decide until the end of September.” 


“They aren’t. This was an informal meeting, but the topic 
came up. He said that he’s still monitoring the situation.” 


“I see.” She waited for him to continue. When it became 
clear that he wouldn’t, she asked, “Monitoring . . . how?” 


“Unclear.” He was clenching his jaw. 


“Pm sorry.” She felt for him. She really did. If there was 
something she could empathize with, it was scientific studies 
coming to an abrupt halt because of a lack of resources. “Does 
that mean that you can’t continue your research?” 


“I have other grants.” 
“So... the problem is that you cannot start new studies?” 


“I can. I had to rearrange different pots, but I should be 
able to afford to start new lines of research, too.” 


Uh? “I see.” She cleared her throat. “So... let me recap. It 
sounds like Stanford froze your funds based on rumors, which 
I agree is a crappy move. But it also sounds like for now you 
can afford to do what you were planning, so... it’s not the 
end of the world?” 


Adam gave her an affronted glare, suddenly looking even 
more cross. 


Oh, boy. “Don’t get me wrong, I understand the principle 
of the matter, and I’d be mad, too. But you have, how many 
other grants? Actually, don’t answer that. I’m not sure I want 
to know.” 


He probably had fifteen. He also had tenure, and dozens of 
publications, and there were all those honors listed on his 
website. Not to mention that she’d read on his CV that he had 


one patent. Olive, on the other hand, had cheap knockoff 
reagents and old pipettes that regularly got stolen. She tried 
not to dwell on how much further ahead than her he was in his 
career, but it was unforgettable, how good he was at what he 
did. How annoyingly good. 


“My point is, this is not an insurmountable problem. And 
we’re actively working on it. We’re in this together, showing 
people that you’re going to stay here forever because of your 
amazing girlfriend.” 


Olive pointed to herself with a flourish, and his glare 
followed her hand. Clearly he was not a fan of rationalizing 
and working through his emotions. 


“Or, you could stay mad, and we could go to your lab and 
throw test tubes full of toxic reagents at each other until the 
pain of third-degree burns overrides your shitty mood? Sounds 
like fun, no?” 


He looked away and rolled his eyes, but she could see it in 
the curve of his cheeks that he was amused. Likely against his 
will. “You are such a smart-ass.” 


“Maybe, but I’m not the one who grunted when I asked 
how your week was.” 


“I did not grunt. And you ordered me chamomile tea.” 
She smiled. “You’re welcome.” 


They were quiet for a few moments as she chewed through 
the first bite of her Danish. Once she’d swallowed she said, 
“I’m sorry about your funds.” 


He shook his head. “I’m sorry about the mood.” 
Oh. “It’s okay. You’re famous for that.” 
“Tam?” 


“Yep. It’s kind of your thing.” 


“Is that so?” 
“Mmm.” 
His mouth twitched. “Maybe I wanted to spare you.” 


Olive smiled, because it was actually a nice thing to say. 
And he was not a nice person, but he was very kind to her 
most of the time—if not always. He was almost smiling back, 
staring down at her in a way that she couldn’t quite interpret 
but that made her think weird thoughts, until the barista 
deposited their drinks on the counter. He suddenly looked like 
he was about to retch. 


“Adam? Are you okay?” 


He stared at her cup and took a step back. “The smell of 
that thing.” 


Olive inhaled deeply. Heaven. “You hate pumpkin spice 
latte?” 


He wrinkled his nose, moving even farther away. “Gross.” 


“How can you hate it? It’s the best thing your country has 
produced in the past century.” 


“Please, stand back. The stench.” 


“Hey. If I have to choose between you and pumpkin spice 
latte, maybe we should rethink our arrangement.” 


He eyed her cup like it contained radioactive waste. 
“Maybe we should.” 


He held the door open for her as they exited the coffee 
shop, taking care not to come too close to her drink. Outside it 
was starting to drizzle. Students were hastily packing up their 
laptops and notebooks from the patio tables to head to class or 
move to the library. Olive had been in love with the rain since 
as far back as she could remember. She inhaled deeply and 
filled her lungs with petrichor, stopping with Adam under the 


canopy. He took a sip of his chamomile tea, and it made her 
smile. 


“Hey,” she said, “I have an idea. Are you going to the fall 
biosciences picnic?” 


He nodded. “I have to. Pm on the biology department’s 
social-and-networking committee.” 


She laughed out loud. “No way.” 

“Yep.” 

“Did you actually sign up for it?” 

“It’s service. I was forced to rotate into the position.” 


“Ah. That sounds .. . fun.” She winced sympathetically, 
almost laughing again at his appalled expression. “Well, Pm 
going, too. Dr. Aslan makes us all go, says it promotes 
bonding among lab mates. Do you make your grads go?” 


“No. I have other, more productive ways of making my 
grads miserable.” 


She chuckled. He was funny, in that weird, dark way of his. 
“I bet you do. Well, here’s my idea: we should hang when 
we're there. In front of the department chair—since he’s 
‘monitoring.’ I’Il bat my eyelashes at you; he’ll see that we’re 
basically one step away from marriage. Then he’ll make a 
quick phone call and a truck will drive up and unload your 
research funds in cash right there in front of—” 


p? 


“Hey, man 


A blond man approached Adam. Olive fell silent as Adam 
turned to smile at him and exchanged a handshake—a close 
bros handshake. She blinked, wondering if she was seeing 
things, and took a sip of her latte. 


“I thought you’d sleep in,” Adam was saying. 


“The time difference screwed me up. I figured I might as 
well come to campus and get to work. Something to eat, too. 
You have no food, man.” 


“There are apples in the kitchen.” 
“Right. No food.” 


Olive took a step back, ready to excuse herself, when the 
blond man turned his attention to her. He looked eerily 
familiar, even though she was certain she had never met him 
before. 


“And who’s this?” he asked curiously. His eyes were a very 
piercing blue. 


“This is Olive,” Adam said. There was a beat after her 
name, in which he should have probably specified how he 
knew Olive. He did not, and she really couldn’t blame him for 
not wanting to feed their fake-dating crap to someone who was 
clearly a good friend. She just kept her smile in place and let 
Adam continue. “Olive, this is my collaborator—” 


“Dude.” The man pretended to bristle. “Introduce me as 
your friend.” 


Adam rolled his eyes, clearly amused. “Olive, this is my 
friend and collaborator. Dr. Tom Benton.” 


Chapter Fe 


ef HYPOTHESIS: The more I need my brain to be on top of its 
game, the higher the probability that it will freeze on me. 


“Wait a minute.” Dr. Benton tilted his head. His smile was still 
in place, but his gaze became a little sharper, his focus on 
Olive less superficial. “Do you happen to be...” 


Olive froze. 


Her mind was never calm, or orderly—more like a garbled 
mess of thoughts, really. And yet, standing there in front of 
Tom Benton, the inside of her head went uncharacteristically 
quiet, and several considerations stacked themselves neatly 
into place. 


The first was that she was comically luckless. The chances 
that the person she depended on to finish her beloved research 
project would be acquainted—no, friends with the person she 
depended on to ensure her beloved Anh’s romantic happiness 
were laughably low. And yet. Then again, Olive’s special 
brand of luck was no news, so she moved on to the next 
consideration. 


She needed to admit who she was to Tom Benton. They 
were scheduled to meet at 3:00 p.m., and pretending not to 
recognize him now would mean the kiss of death to her plans 
to infiltrate herself into his lab. Academics had huge egos, 
after all. 


Last consideration: if she phrased this right, she could 
probably avoid Dr. Benton hearing about the whole fake- 
dating mess. Adam hadn’t mentioned it, which probably meant 


that he wasn’t planning to. Olive just needed to follow his 
lead. 


Yes. Excellent plan. She had this in the bag. 


Olive smiled, held on to her pumpkin spice latte, and 
answered, “Yes, I’m Olive Smith, the—” 


“Girlfriend I’ve heard so much about?” 

Shit. Shit, shit, shit. She swallowed. “Um, actually I—” 
“Heard from whom?” Adam asked, frowning. 

Dr. Benton shrugged. “Everyone.” 


“Everyone,” Adam repeated. He was scowling now. “In 
Boston?” 


“Yeah.” 

“Why are people at Harvard talking about my girlfriend?” 
“Because you’re you.” 

“Because I’m me?” Adam looked perplexed. 


“There have been tears. Some hair-pulling. A few broken 
hearts. Don’t worry, they’ll get over it.” 


Adam rolled his eyes, and Dr. Benton returned his attention 
to Olive. He smiled at her, offering his hand. “It’s very nice to 
meet you. I had written off the whole girlfriend thing as 
rumors, but I’m glad you. . . exist. Sorry, I didn’t catch your 
name—I’m terrible at names.” 


“Pm Olive.” She shook his hand. He had a nice grip, not 
too tight and not too soft. 


“Which department do you teach, Olive?” 
Oh, crap. “Actually, I don’t. Teach, that is.” 


“Oh, sorry. I didn’t mean to assume.” He smiled, 
apologetic and self-effacing. There was a smooth charm to 
him. He was young to be a professor, though not as young as 


Adam. And he was tall, though not as tall as Adam. And he 
was handsome, though . . . yeah. Not as handsome as Adam. 


“What do you do, then? Are you a research fellow?” 
“Um, I actually—” 

“She’s a student,” Adam said. 

Dr. Benton’s eyes widened. 


“A graduate student,” Adam clarified. There was a hint of 
warning in his tone, like he really wanted Dr. Benton to drop 
the subject. 


Dr. Benton, naturally, did not. “Your graduate student?” 
Adam frowned. “No, of course she’s not my—” 


This was the perfect opening. “Actually, Dr. Benton, I work 
with Dr. Aslan.” Maybe this meeting was still salvageable. 
“You probably don’t recognize my name, but we’ve 
corresponded. We’re supposed to meet today. I’m the student 
who’s working on the pancreatic cancer biomarkers. The one 
who asked to come work in your lab for a year.” 


Dr. Benton’s eyes widened even more, and he muttered 
something that sounded a lot like “What the hell?” Then his 
face stretched into a wide, openmouthed grin. “Adam, you 
absolute ass. You didn’t even tell me.” 


“I didn’t know,” Adam muttered. His gaze was fixed on 
Olive. 


“How could you not know that your girlfriend—” 


“I didn’t tell Adam, because I didn’t know you two were 
friends,” Olive interjected. And then she thought that maybe it 
wasn’t quite believable. If Olive really were Adam’s girlfriend, 
he’d have told her about his friends. Since, in a shocking plot 
twist, he did appear to have at least one. 


“That is, I, um... never put two and two together, and 
didn’t know that you were the Tom he always talked about.” 
There, better. Kind of. “I’m sorry, Dr. Benton. I didn’t mean to 


99 


“Tom,” he said, grin still in place. His shock seemed to be 
settling into pleasant surprise. “Please, call me Tom.” His eyes 
darted between Adam and Olive for a few seconds. Then he 
said, “Hey, are you free?” He pointed at the coffee shop. “Why 
don’t we go inside and chat about your project now? No point 
in waiting until this afternoon.” 


She took a sip of her latte to temporize. Was she free? 
Technically, yes. She would have loved to run to the edge of 
campus and scream into the void until modern civilization 
collapsed, but that wasn’t exactly a pressing matter. And she 
wanted to look as accommodating as possible to Dr. Benton— 
Tom. Beggars and choosers and all that. 


“I’m free.” 
“Great. You, Adam?” 


Olive froze. And so did Adam, for about a second, before 
pointing out, “I don’t think I should be present, if you’re about 
to interview her—” 


“Oh, it’s not an interview. Just an informal chat to see if 
Olive’s and my research match. You’ll want to know if your 
girlfriend is moving to Boston for a year, right? Come on.” He 
motioned for them to follow him and then stepped inside the 
Starbucks. 


Olive and Adam exchanged a silent look that somehow 
managed to speak volumes. It said, What the hell do we do? 
and How the hell would I know? and This is going to be weird, 
and No, it’s going to be plain bad. Then Adam sighed, put on a 
resigned face, and headed inside. Olive followed him, 
regretting her life choices. 


“Aslan’s retiring, huh?” Tom asked after they’d found a 
secluded table in the back. Olive had no choice but to sit 
across from him—and on Adam’s left. Like a good 
“girlfriend,” she supposed. Her “boyfriend,” in the meantime, 
was sullenly sipping his chamomile tea next to her. J should 
snap a picture, she reflected. He’d make for an excellent viral 
meme. 


“In the next few years,” Olive confirmed. She loved her 
adviser, who had always been supportive and encouraging. 
Since the very beginning she had given Olive the freedom to 
develop her own research program, which was almost unheard 
of for Ph.D. students. Having a hands-off mentor was great 
when it came to pursuing her interests, but. . . 


“If Aslan’s retiring soon, she’s not applying for grants 
anymore—understandable, since she won’t be around long 
enough to see the projects through—which means that your 
lab is not exactly flush with cash right now,” Tom summarized 
perfectly. “Okay, tell me about your project. What’s cool about 
1t?” 


“T . . . ,” Olive began—she scrambled to collect her 
thoughts. “So, it’s—” Another pause. Longer this time, and 
more painfully awkward. “Um...” 


This, precisely, was her problem. Olive knew that she was 
an excellent scientist, that she had the discipline and the 
critical-thinking skills to produce good work in the lab. 
Unfortunately succeeding in academia also required the ability 
to pitch one’s work, sell it to strangers, present it in public, 
and .. . that was not something she enjoyed or excelled at. It 
made her feel panicky and judged, as though pinned to a 
microscope slide, and her ability to produce syntactically 
coherent sentences invariably leaked out of her brain. 


Like right now. Olive felt her cheeks heat and her tongue 
tie and— 


“What kind of question is that?” Adam interjected. 


When she glanced at him, he was scowling at Tom, who 
just shrugged. 


“What’s cool about your project?” Adam repeated back. 
“Yeah. Cool. You know what I mean.” 

“I don’t think I do, and maybe neither does Olive.” 
Tom huffed. “Fine, what would you ask?” 


Adam turned to Olive. His knee brushed her leg, warm and 
oddly reassuring through her jeans. “What issues does your 
project target? Why do you think it’s significant? What gaps in 
the literature does it fill? What techniques are you using? 
What challenges do you foresee?” 


Tom huffed. “Right, sure. Consider all those long, boring 
questions asked, Olive.” 


She glanced at Adam, finding that he was studying her with 
a calm, encouraging expression. The way he’d formulated the 
questions helped her reorganize her thoughts, and realizing 
that she had answers for each one melted most of her panic. It 
probably hadn’t been intentional on Adam’s part, but he’d 
done her a solid. 


Olive was reminded of that guy from the bathroom, from 
years ago. I have no idea if you’re good enough, he’d told her. 
What matters is whether your reason to be in academia is good 
enough. He’d said that Olive’s reason was the best one, and 
therefore, she could do this. She needed to do this. 


“Okay,” she started again after a deep breath, gathering 
what she’d rehearsed the previous night with Malcolm. 
“Here’s the deal. Pancreatic cancer is very aggressive and 
deadly. It has very poor prognosis, with only one out of four 
people alive a year after diagnosis.” Her voice, she thought, 
sounded less breathy and more self-assured. Good. “The 


problem is that it’s so hard to detect, we are only able to 
diagnose it very late in the game. At that point, the cancer has 
already spread so widely, most treatments can’t do much to 
counteract it. But if diagnosis were faster—” 


“People could get treatment sooner and have a higher 
chance of survival,” Tom said, nodding a bit impatiently. “Yep, 
I’m well aware. We already have some screening tools, 
though. Like imaging.” 


She wasn’t surprised he brought it up, since imaging was 
what Tom’s lab focused on. “Yes, but that’s expensive, time- 
consuming, and often not useful because of the pancreas’s 
position. But . . .” She took another deep breath. “I think I 
have found a set of biomarkers. Not from tissue biopsy— 
blood biomarkers. Noninvasive, easy to obtain. Cheap. In mice 
they can detect pancreatic cancer as early as stage one.” 


She paused. Tom and Adam were both staring at her. Tom 
was clearly interested, and Adam looked . . . a little weird, to 
be honest. Impressed, maybe? Nah, impossible. 


“Okay. This sounds promising. What’s the next step?” 


“Collecting more data. Running more analyses with better 
equipment to prove that my set of biomarkers is worthy of a 
clinical trial. But for that I need a larger lab.” 


“T see.” He nodded with a thoughtful expression and then 
leaned back in his chair. “Why pancreatic cancer?” 


“It’s one of the most lethal, and we know so little about 
how—” 


“No,” Tom interrupted. “Most third-year Ph.D. students are 
too busy infighting over the centrifuge to come up with their 
own line of research. There must be a reason you’re so 
motivated. Did someone close to you have cancer?” 


Olive swallowed before reluctantly answering, “Yes.” 


“Who?” 


“Tom,” Adam said, a trace of warning in his voice. His 
knee was still against her thigh. Still warm. And yet, Olive felt 
her blood turn cold. She really, really didn’t want to say it. 
And yet she couldn’t ignore the question. She needed Tom’s 
help. 


“My mother.” 


Okay. It was out there now. She’d said it, and she could go 
back to trying not to think about it— 


“Did she die?” 


A beat. Olive hesitated and then nodded silently, not 
looking at either of the men at the table. She knew Tom wasn’t 
trying to be mean—people were curious, after all. But it 
wasn’t something Olive wanted to discuss. She barely ever 
talked about it, even with Anh and Malcolm, and she had 
carefully avoided writing about her experience in her grad 
school applications, even when everyone had told her it would 
give her a leg up. 


She just . . . She couldn’t. She just couldn’t. 
“How old were you—” 


“Tom,” Adam interrupted, tone sharp. He set his tea down 
with more force than necessary. “Stop harassing my 
girlfriend.” It was less of a warning and more of a threat. 


“Right. Yes. Pm an insensitive ass.” Tom smiled, 
apologetic. 


Olive noticed that he was looking at her shoulder. When 
she followed his gaze, she realized that Adam had placed his 
arm on the back of her chair. He wasn’t touching her, but there 
was something . . . protective about his position. He seemed to 
generate large amounts of heat, which was not at all 


unwelcome. It helped melt the yucky feeling the conversation 
with Tom had left behind. 


“Then again, so is your boyfriend.” Tom winked at her. 
“Okay, Olive. Tell you what.” Tom leaned forward, elbows on 
the table. “ve read your paper. And the abstract you 
submitted to the SBD conference. Are you still planning to 
go?” 


“Tf it’s accepted.” 


“I’m sure it will be. It’s excellent work. But it sounds like 
your project has progressed since you submitted that, and I 
need to know more about it. If I decide that you can work in 
my lab next year, Pll cover you completely—salary, supplies, 
equipment, whatever you need. But I need to know where 
you’re at to make sure that you’re worth investing in.” 


Olive felt her heart racing. This sounded promising. Very 
promising. 


“Here’s the deal. I’m going to give you two weeks to write 
up a report on everything you’ve been doing so far— 
protocols, findings, challenges. In two weeks, send me the 
report and PII make a decision based on it. Does that sound 
feasible?” 


She grinned, nodding enthusiastically. “Yes!” She could 
absolutely do that. She’d need to pull the intro from one of her 
papers, the methods from her lab protocols, the preliminary 
data from that grant she’d applied for and not won. And she’d 
have to rerun some of her analyses—yjust to make sure that the 
report was absolutely flawless for Tom. It would be lots of 
work in little time, but who needed sleep? Or bathroom 
breaks? 


“Great. In the meantime I’Il see you around and we can 
chat more. Adam and I will be joined at the hip for a couple of 
weeks, since we’re working on that grant we just got. Are you 
coming to my talk tomorrow?” 


Olive had no idea he was giving a talk, let alone when or 
where, but she said “Of course! Can’t wait!” with the certainty 
of someone who had installed a countdown widget on her 
smartphone. 


“And I’m staying with Adam, so I'll see you at his place.” 


Oh no. “Um...” She risked a glance at Adam, who was 
unreadable. “Sure. Though we usually meet at my place, 


99 


SO... 


“I see. You disapprove of his taxidermy collection, don’t 
you?” Tom stood with a smirk. “Excuse me. I'll get some 
coffee and be right back.” 


The second he was gone, Olive instantly turned to Adam. 
Now that they were alone there were about ten million topics 
for them to debrief on, but the only thing she could think of 
was, “Do you really collect taxidermied animals?” 


He gave her a scathing look and took his arm away from 
around her shoulders. She felt cold all of a sudden. Bereft. 


“T’m sorry. I had no idea he was your friend, or that you 
two had a grant together. You do such different research, the 
possibility didn’t even cross my mind.” 


“You did mention that you don’t believe cancer researchers 
can benefit from collaborating with computational modelists.” 


“You—” She noticed the way his mouth was twitching and 
wondered when exactly they’d gotten on teasing terms. “How 
do you two know each other?” 


“He was a postdoc in my lab, back when I was a Ph.D. 
student. We’ve kept in touch and collaborated through the 
years.” 


So he must be four or five years older than Adam. 


“You went to Harvard, right?” 


He nodded, and a terrifying thought occurred to her. “What 
if he feels obliged to take me on because I’m your fake 
girlfriend?” 


“Tom won’t. He once fired his cousin for breaking a flow 
cytometer. He’s not exactly tenderhearted.” 


Takes one to know one, she thought. “Listen, I’m sorry this 
is forcing you to lie to your friend. If you want to tell him that 
this is fake...” 


Adam shook his head. “If I did, l’d never live it down.” 


She let out a laugh. “Yeah, I can see that. And honestly it 
wouldn’t reflect well on me, either.” 


“But, Olive, if you do end up deciding that you want to go 
to Harvard, I'll need you to keep it a secret until the end of 
September.” 


She gasped, realizing the implications of his words. “Of 
course. If people know that I’m leaving, the department chair 
will never believe that you’re not leaving, too. I hadn’t even 
thought of it. I promise I won’t tell anyone! Well, except for 
Malcolm and Anh, but they’re great at keeping secrets, they’d 
never—” 


His eyebrow rose. Olive winced. 
“I will make them keep this secret. I swear.” 
“I appreciate it.” 


She noticed that Tom was on his way back to the table and 
leaned closer to Adam to quickly whisper, “One more thing. 
The talk he mentioned, the one he’s giving tomorrow?” 


“The one you ‘can’t wait’ for?” 


Olive bit the inside of her cheek. “Yes. When and where is 
it going to be?” 


Adam laughed silently just as Tom sat down again. “Don’t 
worry. P’ Il email you the details.” 


Chapter pix 


ef HYPOTHESIS: When compared with multiple types and 
models of furniture, Adam Carlsen’s lap will be rated in the top 
fifth percentile for comfort, coziness, and enjoyment. 


The moment Olive opened the door of the auditorium she and 
Anh exchanged a wide-eyed look and said, in unison, “Holy 
shit.” 


In her two years at Stanford she had been to countless 
seminars, trainings, lectures, and classes in this lecture hall, 
and yet she’d never seen the room this full. Maybe Tom was 
giving out free beer? 


“T think they made the talk mandatory for immunology and 
pharmacology,” Anh said. “And I overheard at least five 
people in the hallway saying that Benton is ‘a known science 
hottie.’” She stared critically at the podium, where Tom was 
chatting with Dr. Moss from immunology. “I guess he’s cute. 
Though not nearly as cute as Jeremy.” 


Olive smiled. The air in the room was hot and humid, 
smelling like sweat and too many human beings. “You don’t 
have to stay. This is probably a fire hazard and not even 
remotely relevant to your research—” 


“It beats doing actual work.” She grabbed Olive’s wrist, 
pulling her through the throng of grads and postdocs crowding 
the entrance and down the stairs on the side. They were just as 
packed. “And if this guy is going to take you away from me 
and to Boston for an entire year, I want to make sure that he 
deserves you.” She winked. “Consider my presence the 


equivalent of a father cleaning his rifle in front of his 
daughter’s boyfriend before prom.” 


“Aww, Daddy.” 


There was nowhere to sit, of course, not even on the floor 
or on the steps. Olive spotted Adam in an aisle seat a few 
meters away. He was back to his usual black Henley and deep 
in conversation with Holden Rodrigues. When Adam’s eyes 
met Olive’s, she grinned and waved at him. For some yet 
unknown reason that likely had to do with the fact that they 
were sharing this huge, ridiculous, unlikely secret, Adam now 
felt like a friendly face. He didn’t wave back, but his gaze 
seemed softer and warmer, and his mouth curved into that tilt 
that she’d learned to recognize as his version of a smile. 


“I can’t believe they didn’t switch the talk to one of the 
bigger auditoriums. There is not nearly enough space for— 
Oh, no. No, no, no.” 


Olive followed Anh’s gaze, and saw at least twenty new 
people arrive. The crowd immediately started pushing Olive 
toward the front of the room. Anh yelped when a first-year 
from neuroscience who weighed about four times as much as 
she did stepped on her toe. “This is ridiculous.” 


“I know. I can’t believe more people are—” 


Olive’s hip bumped against something—someone. She 
turned to apologize, and—it was Adam. Or, Adam’s shoulder. 
He was still chatting with Dr. Rodrigues, who wore a 
displeased expression and was muttering, “Why are we even 
here?” 


“Because he’s a friend,” Adam said. 
“Not my friend.” 


Adam sighed and turned to look at Olive. 


“Hey—sorry.” She gestured in the direction of the 
entrance. “A bunch of new people just came in and apparently 
the space in this room is finite. I think it’s a law of physics, or 
something.” 


“It’s okay.” 
“Id take a step back, but...” 


On the podium, Dr. Moss took the mic and began 
introducing Tom. 


“Here,” Adam told Olive, making to stand from his chair. 
“Take my seat.” 


“Oh.” It was nice of him to offer. Not fake-dating-to-save- 
her-ass, spend-twenty-bucks-on-junk-food-for-her nice, but 
still very nice. Olive couldn’t possibly accept. Plus, Adam was 
a professor, which meant that he was older and all that. 
Thirtysomething. He did look fit, but he probably had a bum 
knee and was only a few years short of osteoporosis. “Thank 
you, but—” 


“Actually, that would be a terrible idea,” Anh interjected. 
Her eyes were darting between Olive and Adam. “No offense, 
Dr. Carlsen, but you’re three times larger than Olive. If you 
stand, the room’s going to burst.” 


Adam stared at Anh like he had no idea whether he’d just 
been insulted. 


“But,” she continued, this time looking at Olive, “it’d be 
great if you could do me a solid and sit on your boyfriend’s 
lap, Ol. Just so I don’t have to stand on my toes?” 


Olive blinked. And then she blinked again. And then she 
blinked some more. Near the podium, Dr. Moss was still 
introducing Tom—“Got his Ph.D. from Vanderbilt and then 
moved to a postdoctoral fellowship at Harvard University, 
where he pioneered several techniques in the field of 
imaging” 


but her voice sounded as if it was coming from far, 


far away. Possibly because Olive couldn’t stop thinking about 
what Anh had proposed, which was just . . . 


“Anh, I don’t think it’s a good idea,” Olive mumbled under 
her breath, avoiding glancing in Adam’s direction. 


Anh gave her a look. “Why? You’re taking up space we 
don’t have, and it’s only logical that you use Carlsen as a 
chair. I would, but he’s your boyfriend, not mine.” 


For a moment, Olive tried to imagine what Adam would do 
if Anh decided to sit on his lap, and figured that it would 
probably end up involving someone being murdered and 
someone doing the murdering—she wasn’t sure who’d be 
doing what. The mental image was so ridiculous that she 
almost giggled out loud. Then she noticed the way Anh was 
looking at her expectantly. “Anh, I can t.” 


“Why?” 
“Because. This is a scientific talk.” 


“Psh. Remember last year, when Jess and Alex made out 
for half of that CRISPR lecture?” 


“I do—and it was weird.” 


“Nah, it wasn’t. Also, Malcolm swears that during a 
seminar he saw that tall guy from immunology get a hand job 
from—” 


“Anh.” 


“The point is, no one cares.” Anh’s expression softened 
into a plea. “And this girl’s elbow is puncturing my right lung, 
and I have about thirty seconds of air left. Please, Olive.” 


Olive turned to face Adam. Who was, very unsurprisingly, 
looking up at her with that nonexpression of his, the one that 
Olive couldn’t quite decipher. Except that his jaw was 
working, and she wondered if maybe this was it. The last 
straw. The moment he backed out of their arrangement. 


Because millions of dollars in research funds couldn’t be 
worth having some girl he barely knew sit on his lap in the 
most crowded room in the history of crowded rooms. 


Is this okay? she tried to ask him with her eyes. Because 
maybe this is a little too much. Way more than saying hi to 
each other and having coffee together. 


He gave her a brief nod, and then—Olive, or at least 
Olive’s body, was stepping toward Adam and gingerly sitting 
on his thigh, her knees tucked between his spread legs. It was 
happening. It had happened already. Olive was here. 


Sitting. 

On. 

Adam. 

This. Yep, this. 

This was her life now. 


She was going to murder Anh for this. Slowly. Maybe 
painfully, too. She was going to be jailed for bestfriendicide, 
and she was a-okay with it. 


“Pm sorry,” she whispered to Adam. He was so tall, her 
mouth was not quite level with his ear. She could smell him— 
the woodsiness of his shampoo, his body wash, and something 
else underneath, dark and good and clean. It all felt familiar, 
and after a few seconds Olive realized that it was because of 
the last time they had been this close. Because of The Night. 
Because of the kiss. “So, so sorry.” 


He didn’t immediately answer. His jaw tensed, and he 
looked in the direction of the PowerPoint. Dr. Moss was gone, 
Tom was talking about cancer diagnostics, and Olive would 
have gobbled this up on a regular day, but right now she just 
needed out. Of the talk. Of the room. Of her own life. 


Then Adam turned his face a little and told her, “It’s okay.” 
He sounded a bit strained. Like nothing about this situation 
was, in fact, okay. 


“Pm sorry. I had no idea she would suggest this, and I 
couldn’t think of a way to—” 


“Sssh.” His arm slid around her waist, his hand coming to 
rest on her hip in a gesture that should have been unpleasant 
but just felt reassuring. His voice was low when he added, “It’s 
fine.” The words vibrated in her ear, rich and warm. “More 
material for my Title IX complaint.” 


Shit. “God, I’m so sorry—” 
“Olive.” 


She lifted her eyes to catch his and was shocked to find 
him . . . not smiling, but something like it. 


“I was kidding. You weigh nothing. I don’t mind.” 
se? 


“Ssh. Just focus on the talk. Tom might ask you questions 
about it.” 


This was just . . . Seriously, this whole business, it was 
completely, utterly... 


Comfortable. Adam Carlsen’s lap was one of the most 
comfortable places on earth, as it turned out. He was warm and 
solid in a pleasant, soothing way, and he didn’t seem to mind 
too much having Olive half draped over him. After a short 
while she realized that the room was truly too full for anyone 
to be paying attention to them, except for a quick glance from 
Holden Rodrigues, who studied Adam for a long moment and 
then smiled warmly at Olive before focusing on the talk. She 
stopped pretending to be able to hold her spine upright for 
more than five minutes and just let herself lean into Adam’s 


torso. He didn’t say anything but angled himself a little, just to 
help her fit more comfortably. 


Somewhere halfway through the talk she realized that she 
had been sliding down Adam’s thigh. Or, to be fair, Adam 
realized and lifted her up, straightening her in a firm, quick 
pull that made her feel like she really didn’t weigh anything. 
Once she was stable again, he didn’t move his arm from where 
it was snaked around her waist. The talk had been happening 
for thirty-five minutes going on a century, so no one could 
blame Olive if she sank into him a little bit more. 


It was fine. It was more than fine, actually. It was nice. 


“Don’t fall asleep,” he murmured. She felt his lips move 
against the tendrils of hair above her temple. It should have 
been Olive’s cue to straighten, but she couldn’t quite make 
herself. 


“T’m not. Though you’re so comfy.” 


His fingers tightened on her, maybe to wake her up, maybe 
to hold her closer. She was about to melt off the chair and start 
snoring. 


“You look like you’re about to take a nap.” 


“It’s just that I’ve read all of Tom’s articles. I already know 
what he’s saying.” 


“Yeah, same. We cited all this stuff in our grant proposal.” 
He sighed, and she felt his body move under hers. “This is 
dull.” 


“Maybe you should ask a question. To liven this up.” 
Adam turned slightly to her. “Me?” 


She angled her head to speak in his ear. “I’m sure you can 
come up with something. Just raise your hand and make a 
mean observation with that tone of yours. Glare at him. It 
might devolve into an entertaining outbreak of fisticuffs.” 


His cheek curved. “You are such a smart-ass.”’ 


Olive looked back to the slides, smiling. “Has it been 
weird? Having to lie to Tom about us?” 


Adam seemed to think about it. “No.” He hesitated. “It 
looks like your friends are buying that we’re together.” 


“I think so. Pm not exactly a convincing liar, and 
sometimes I worry that Anh might get suspicious. But I 
walked in on her and Jeremy making out in the grad lounge 
the other day.” 


They fell quiet and listened to the last few minutes of the 
talk in silence. In front of them, Olive could see at least two 
professors taking a nap, and several surreptitiously working on 
their laptops. Next to Adam, Dr. Rodrigues had been playing 
Candy Crush on his phone for the past half an hour. Some 
people had left, and Anh had found a seat about ten minutes 
ago. So had several of the students who had been next to 
Olive, which meant that she could have technically stood up 
and left Adam alone. Technically. Technically, there was an 
open chair somewhere in the third-to-last row. Technically. 


Instead she brought her lips to Adam’s ear once more and 
whispered, “It’s working out well for me, I have to say. This 
whole fake-dating thing.” More than well. Better than she ever 
thought it would. 


Adam blinked once and then nodded. Maybe his arm 
tensed a little around her. Maybe it didn’t, and Olive’s mind 
was playing tricks on her. It was starting to get late, after all. 
Her last coffee had been too long ago, and she wasn’t fully 
awake, her thoughts fuzzy and relaxed. 


“What about you?” 
“Mmm?” Adam wasn’t looking at her. 


“Ts it working for you?” It came out a little needy. Olive 
told herself that it was only because of how low she had to 


pitch her voice. “Or do you maybe want to fake—break up 
early?” 


He didn’t reply for a second. Then, just as Dr. Moss took 
the mic to thank Tom and ask the audience for questions, she 
heard him say, “No. I don’t want to fake—break up.” 


He really did smell good. And he was funny in a weird, 
deadpan way, and yes, a known ass, but friendly enough to her 
that she could sort of ignore that about him. Plus, he was 
spending a small fortune on sugar for her. Truly, she had 
nothing to complain about. 


Olive settled herself more comfortably and turned her 
attention back to the podium. 


AFTER THE TALK, Olive considered walking down to the podium 
to compliment Tom and ask him one or two questions she 
already knew the answers to. Sadly, there were dozens of 
people waiting to speak to him, and she decided that the ass- 
kissing wasn’t worth standing in line. So she said goodbye to 
Adam, waited for Anh to wake up from her nap while 
contemplating getting revenge by drawing a dick on her face, 
and then slowly headed with her across campus back to the 
biology building. 


“Is it going to be a lot of work, the report Benton asked 
for?” 


“A fair amount. I need to run a few control studies to make 
my results stronger. Plus there’s other stuff I should be 
working on—the TA’ing, and my poster presentation for the 
SBD conference in Boston.” Olive bent her head back, felt the 
sun warm her skin, and smiled. “If I hole up in the lab every 
night this week and the next, I should be able to finish it on 
time.” 


“SBD is something to look forward to, at least.” 


Olive nodded. She usually wasn’t a fan of academic 
conferences, given how prohibitively expensive registration, 
travel, and lodgings could be. But Malcolm and Anh were 
going to be at SBD, too, and Olive was excited to explore 
Boston with them. Plus, the intradepartmental drama that 
always happened at academic functions with open bars was 
sure to be A+ entertainment. 


“I am organizing this outreach event for BIPOC women in 
STEM from all over the country—I’m going to get Ph.D. 
students like me to talk face-to-face with undergrads who are 
applying and reassure them that if they come to grad school 
they won’t be alone.” 


“Anh, this is amazing. You are amazing.” 


“I know.” Anh winked, sliding her arm through Olive’s. 
“We can all share a hotel room. And get free gadgets from the 
exhibit booths, and get sloshed together. Remember at Human 
Genetics, when Malcolm got wasted and began hitting random 
passersby with his poster tube— What’s going on there?” 


Olive squinted against the sun. The parking lot of the 
biology building was uncharacteristically jammed with traffic. 
People were blowing their horns and getting out of their cars, 
trying to figure out the source of the holdup. She and Anh 
walked around a line of vehicles stuck in the lot, until they ran 
into a group of biology grads. 


“Someone’s battery died, and it’s blocking the exit line.” 
Greg, one of Olive’s lab mates, was rolling his eyes and 
bouncing impatiently on his feet. He pointed at a red truck 
stuck sideways in the most inconvenient turn. 


Olive recognized it as Cherie’s, the department secretary. 


“I defend my dissertation proposal tomorrow—lI need to 
drive home to prepare. This is ridiculous. And why the fuck is 


Cherie just standing there, chatting leisurely with Carlsen? Do 
they want us to bring them tea and cucumber sandwiches?” 


Olive looked around, searching for Adam’s tall frame. 


“Oh yeah, there’s Carlsen,” Anh said. Olive looked where 
she was pointing, just in time to see Cherie get back behind the 
wheel and Adam jogging around the truck. 


“What is he—” was all Olive managed to say, before he 
came to a stop, put his hands on the back of the truck in 
neutral, and started... 


Pushing. 


His shoulders and biceps strained his Henley. The firm 
muscles of his upper back visibly shifted and tensed under the 
black fabric as he bent forward and rolled several tons of truck 


across . . . quite a bit of a distance and into the closest empty 
parking space. 
Oh. 


There was some applause and whistling from bystanders 
when the truck was out of the way, and a couple of faculty 
members from neuroscience clapped Adam on the shoulder as 
the line of cars started driving out of the lot. 


“Fucking finally,” Olive heard Greg say from behind her, 
and she stood there, blinking, a little shocked. Had she 
hallucinated it? Had Adam really just pushed a giant truck all 
by himself? Was he an alien from planet Krypton who 
moonlighted as a superhero? 


“Ol, go give him a kiss.” 


Olive whirled around, abruptly reminded of Anh’s 
existence. “What?” No. No. “I’m good. I just said goodbye to 
him a minute ago and—” 


“Ol, why don’t you want to go kiss your boyfriend?” 


Ugh. “1... It’s not that I don’t want to. I just—” 


“Dude, he just moved a truck. By himself. On uphill 
ground. He deserves a damn kiss.” Anh shoved Olive and 
made a shooing motion. 


Olive clenched her teeth and headed in Adam’s direction, 
wishing she’d gone ahead and drawn twenty dicks all over 
Anh’s face. Maybe she did suspect that Olive was faking her 
relationship with Adam. Or maybe she just got a kick out of 
pressuring her into PDA’ing, that ingrate. Either way, if this 
was what one got for masterminding an intricate fake-dating 
scheme that was supposed to benefit a friend’s love life, then 
maybe— 


Olive halted abruptly. 


Adam’s head was bent forward, black hair covering his 
forehead as he wiped the sweat from his eyes with the hem of 
his shirt. It left a broad strip of flesh visible on his torso, and— 
it was nothing indecent, really, nothing unusual, just some fit 
guy’s midriff, but for some reason Olive couldn’t help staring 
at Adam Carlsen’s uncovered skin like it was a slab of Italian 
marble, and— 


“Olive?” he said, and she immediately averted her eyes. 
Crap, he’d totally caught her staring. First she’d forced him to 
kiss her, and now she was ogling him like some perv in the 
biology parking lot and— 

“Did you need anything?” 

“No, I...” She felt her cheeks go crimson. 

His skin, too, was flushed from the effort of pushing, and 


his eyes were bright and clear, and he seemed . . . well, at least 
he didn’t seem unhappy to see her. 


“Anh sent me to give you a kiss.” 


He froze halfway through wiping his hands on his shirt. 
And then he said “Ah” in his usual neutral, unreadable tone. 


“Because you moved the truck. I—I know how ridiculous 
that sounds. I know. But I didn’t want her to get suspicious, 
and there are faculty members here, too, so maybe they’ lI tell 
the department chair and it will be two birds with one stone 
and I can leave if you—” 


“It’s okay, Olive. Breathe.” 


Right. Yes. Good suggestion. Olive did breathe, and the act 
made her realize that she hadn’t done that in a while, which in 
turn made her smile up at Adam—who did his mouth-twitch 
thing back at her. She was really starting to get used to him. To 
his expressions, his size, his distinctive way of being in the 
same space as her. 


“Anh’s staring at us,” he said, looking over Olive’s head. 


Olive sighed and pinched the bridge of her nose. “I just bet 
she is,” she mumbled. 


Adam wiped sweat from his forehead with the back of his 
hand. 


Olive squirmed. “So . . . Should we hug or something?” 


“Oh.” Adam looked at his hands and down at himself. “I 
don’t think you want to do that. I’m pretty gross.” 


Before she could stop herself Olive studied him from head 
to toe, taking in his large body, his broad shoulders, the way 
his hair was curling around his ears. He didn’t /ook gross. Not 
even to Olive, who was usually not a fan of dudes built like 
they spent a double-digit percentage of their time at the gym. 
He looked... 


Not gross. 


Still, maybe it was better if they didn’t hug. Olive might 
end up doing something egregiously stupid. She should just 
say goodbye and leave—yes, that was the thing to do. 


Except that something absolutely insane came out of her 
mouth. 


“Should we just kiss, then?” she heard herself blurt out. 
And then she instantly wished a stray meteorite would hit the 
exact spot where she was standing, because—had she just 
asked Adam Carlsen for a kiss? Was that what she’d done? 
Was she a lunatic all of a sudden? 


“I mean, not like a kiss kiss,” she hastened to add. “But like 
the last time? You know.” 


He didn’t seem to know. Which made sense, because their 
other kiss had definitely been a kiss kiss. Olive tried not to 
think about it too much, but it flashed in her mind every once 
in a while, mostly when she was doing something important 
that required her utmost concentration, like implanting 
electrodes inside a mouse’s pancreas or trying to decide what 
to order at Subway. Occasionally it would pop up during a 
quiet moment, like when she was in bed and about to fall 
asleep, and she would feel a mixture of embarrassment and 
incredulity and something else. Something that she had no 
intention of examining too closely, not now and not ever. 


“Are you sure?” 


She nodded, even though she wasn’t sure at all. “Is Anh 
still staring at us?” 


His eyes flicked up. “Yes. She’s not even pretending not to. 
I... why does she care so much? Are you famous?” 


“No, Adam.” She gestured at him. “You are.” 
“Am I?” He looked perplexed. 


“Anyway, no need to kiss. You’re right that it would 
probably be a bit weird.” 


“No. No, I didn’t mean that . . .” There was a droplet of 
sweat running down his temple, and he wiped his face again, 


this time with the sleeve of his shirt. “We can kiss.” 
“Oh.” 
“Tf you think that . . . If your friend is watching.” 
“Yeah.” Olive swallowed. “But we don’t have to.” 
“T know.” 


“Unless you want to.” Olive’s palms felt damp and 
clammy, so she surreptitiously wiped them on her jeans. “And 
by ‘want to’ I mean, unless you think it’s a good idea.” It so 
was not a good idea. It was a horrible idea. Like all her ideas. 


“Right.” He looked past Olive and toward Anh, who was 
probably in the middle of doing an entire Instagram Story on 
them. “Okay, then.” 


“Okay.” 


He stepped a little closer, and really, he was not gross. How 
someone this sweaty, someone who'd just pushed a truck, still 
managed to smell good was a topic worthy of a Ph.D. 
dissertation, for sure. Earth’s finest scientists should have been 
hard at work on this. 


“Why don’t I...” Olive inched slightly into him, and after 
letting her hand hover for a moment she rested it over Adam’s 
shoulder. She pushed up on her toes, angling her head up 
toward him. It helped very little, as Olive was still not tall 
enough to reach his mouth, so she tried to get more leverage 
by putting her other hand on his arm, and immediately realized 
that she was basically hugging him. Which was the exact thing 
he had asked her not to do a second ago. Crap. 


“Sorry, too close? I didn’t mean to—” 


She would have finished the sentence, if he hadn’t closed 
the distance between them and just—kissed her. Just like that. 


It was little more than a peck—ust his lips pressing against 
hers, and his hand on her waist to steady her a little. It was a 


kiss, but barely, and it certainly didn’t warrant the way her 
heart pounded in her chest, or the fact that there was 
something warm and liquid looping at the bottom of her belly. 
Not unpleasant, but confusing and a bit scary nonetheless, and 
it had Olive pull back after only a second. When she eased 
back on her heels, it seemed like for a fraction of a moment 
Adam followed her, trying to fill the gap between their 
mouths. Though by the time she’d blinked herself free of the 
haze of the kiss, he was standing tall in front of her, 
cheekbones dusted with red and chest moving up and down in 
shallow breaths. She must have dreamed up that last bit. 


She needed to avert her eyes from him, now. And he 
needed to look elsewhere, too. Why were they staring at each 
other? 


“Okay,” she chirped. “That, um... worked.” 
Adam’s jaw twitched, but he didn’t reply. 


“Well, then. I’m going to...um...” She gestured behind 
her shoulders with her thumb. 


“Anh?” 
“Yeah. Yeah, to Anh.” 
He swallowed heavily. “Okay. Yeah.” 


They had kissed. They had kissed—twice, now. Twice. Not 
that it mattered. No one cared. But. Twice. Plus, the lap. 
Earlier today. Again, not that it mattered. 


“PI see you around, right? Next week?” 


He lifted his fingers to his lips, then let his arm drop to his 
side. “Yes. On Wednesday.” 


It was Thursday now. Which meant that they were going to 
see each other in six days. Which was fine. Olive was fine, no 
matter when or how often they met. “Yep. See you Wed— 
Hey, what about the picnic?” 


“The— Oh.” Adam rolled his eyes, looking a little more 
like himself. “Right. That fu—” He stopped short. “That 
picnic.” 


She grinned. “It’s on Monday.” 
He sighed. “I know.” 
“Youre still going?” 


He gave her a look that clearly stated: /t's not like I have a 
choice, even though I’d rather have my nails extracted one by 
one. With pliers. 


Olive laughed. “Well. I’m going, too.” 

“At least there’s that.” 

“Are you bringing Tom?” 

“Probably. He actually likes people.” 

“Okay. I can network with him a bit, and you and I can 
show off how steady and committed we are to the department 


chair. You'll look like a wingless bird. No flight risk 
whatsoever.” 


“Perfect. Pll bring a counterfeit marriage license to 
casually drop at his feet.” 


Olive laughed, waved goodbye, and then jogged up to Anh. 
She rubbed the side of her hand against her lips, as if trying to 
scrub her mind clean of the fact that she had just kissed Adam 
—Dr. Adam Carlsen—for the second time in her life. Which, 
again, was fine. It had been barely a kiss. Not important. 


“Well, then,” Anh said, tucking her phone into her pocket. 
“You really just made out in front of the biology building with 
associate professor Adam MacArthur Carlsen.” 


Olive rolled her eyes and started up the stairs. “I’m pretty 
sure that’s not his middle name. And we did not.” 


“But it was clear that you wanted to.” 


“Shut up. Why were you looking at us, anyway?” 


“I wasn’t. I happened to glance up when he was about to 
jump you, and I just couldn’t look away.” 


Olive snorted, plugging her headphones into her phone’s 
port. “Right. Of course.” 


“He’s really into you. I can tell from the way he stares at 


99 


“I’m gonna listen to music very loudly now. To tune you 


out 


ce 


you.” 


It wasn’t until much later, after Olive had been working on 
Tom’s report for several hours, that she remembered what 
Adam had said when she’d told him she’d be at the picnic. 


At least there ’s that. 


Olive ducked her head and smiled at her toes. 


Chapter Swew 


ef HYPOTHESIS: There will be a significant positive correlation 
between the amount of sunscreen poured in my hands and the 
intensity of my desire to murder Anh. 


Tom’s report was about a third done and sitting tight at thirty- 
four pages single-spaced, Arial (11 point), no justification. It 
was 11:00 a.m., and Olive had been working in the lab since 
about five—analyzing peptide samples, writing down protocol 
notes, taking covert naps while the PCR machine ran—when 
Greg barged in, looking absolutely furious. 


It was unusual, but not too unusual. Greg was a bit of a 
hothead to begin with, and grad school came with a lot of 
angry outbursts in semipublic places, usually for reasons that, 
Olive was fully aware, would appear ridiculous to someone 
who’d never stepped foot in academia. They’re making me TA 
Intro to Bio for the fourth time in a row; the paper I need is 
behind a paywall; I had a meeting with my supervisor and 
accidentally called her “Mom.’ 


J 


Greg and Olive shared an adviser, Dr. Aslan, and while 
they’d always gotten along fine, they had never been 
particularly close. Olive had hoped, by picking a female 
adviser, to avoid some of the nastiness that was so often 
directed at women in STEM. Unfortunately she had still found 
herself in an all-male lab, which was .. . a less-than-ideal 
environment. That was why when Greg came in, slammed the 
door, and then threw a folder on his bench, Olive was not sure 
what to do. She watched him sit down and begin to sulk. 
Chase, another lab mate, followed him inside a moment later 


with an uneasy expression and started gingerly patting his 
back. 


Olive looked longingly at her RNA samples. Then she 
stepped closer to Greg’s bench and asked, “What’s wrong?” 


She had expected the answer to be The production of my 
reagent has been discontinued, or My p-value is .06, or Grad 
school was a mistake, but now its too late to back out of it 
because my self-worth is unbreakably tied to my academic 
performance, and what would even be left of me if I decided to 
drop out? 


Instead what she got was: “Your stupid boyfriend is what’s 
wrong.” 


By now the fake dating had been going on for over two 
weeks: Olive didn’t startle anymore when someone referred to 
Adam as her boyfriend. Still, Greg’s words were so 
unexpected and full of venom that she couldn’t help but 
answer, “Who?” 


“Carlsen.” He spat the name out like a curse. 
“Oh.” 


“He’s on Greg’s dissertation committee,” Chase explained 
in a significantly milder tone, not quite meeting Olive’s eyes. 


“Oh. Right.” This could be bad. Very bad. “What 
happened?” 


“He failed my proposal.” 
“Shit.” Olive bit into her lower lip. “I’m sorry, Greg.” 


“This is going to set me back a lot. It’ll take me months to 
revise it, all because Carlsen had to go and nitpick. I didn’t 
even want him on my committee; Dr. Aslan forced me to add 
him because she’s so obsessed with his stupid computational 
stuff.” 


Olive chewed on the inside of her cheek, trying to come up 
with something meaningful to say and failing miserably. “I’m 
really sorry.” 


“Olive, do you guys talk about this stuff?” Chase asked out 
of the blue, eyeing her suspiciously. “Did he tell you he wasn’t 
going to pass Greg?” 


“What? No. No, I...” I talk to him for exactly fifteen 
minutes a week. And, okay, I’ve kissed him. Twice. And I sat on 
his lap. Once. But its just that, and Adam—he speaks very 
little. I actually wish he spoke more, since I know nothing 
about him, and I'd like to know at least something. “No, he 
doesn’t. I think it would be against regulations if he did.” 


“God.” Greg slammed his palm against the edge of the 
bench, making her jump. “He’s such a dick. What a sadistic 
piece of shit.” 


Olive opened her mouth to—to do what, precisely? To 
defend Adam? He was a dick. She had seen him be a dick. In 
full action. Maybe not recently, and maybe not to her, but if 
she’d wanted to count on her fingers the number of 
acquaintances who’d ended up in tears because of him, 
well . . . She would need both her hands, and then her toes. 
Maybe borrow some of Chase’s, too. 


“Did he say why, at least? What you have to change?” 


“Everything. He wants me to change my control condition 
and add another one, which is going to make the project ten 
times more time-consuming. And the way he said it, his air of 
superiority—he is so arrogant.” 


Well. It was no news, really. Olive scratched her temple, 
trying not to sigh. “It sucks. I’m sorry,” she repeated once 
more, at a loss for anything better and genuinely feeling for 
Greg. 


“Yeah, well.” He stood and walked around his bench, 
coming to a stop in front of Olive. “You should be.” 


She froze. Surely she must have misheard. “Excuse me?” 
“You're his girlfriend.” 


“I...” Really am not. But. Even if she had been. “Greg, 
I’m only dating him. I am not him. How would I have 
anything to do with—” 


“You’re fine with all of this. With him acting like that— 
like an asshole on a power trip. You don’t give a shit about the 
way he treats everyone in the program, otherwise you 
wouldn’t be able to stomach being with him.” 


At his tone, she took a step back. 


Chase lifted his hands in a peacekeeping gesture, coming to 
stand between them. “Hey, now. Let’s not—” 


“I’m not the one who failed you, Greg.” 


“Maybe. But you don’t care that half of the department 
lives in terror of your boyfriend, either.” 


Olive felt anger bubbling up. “That is not true. I am able to 
separate my professional relationships and my personal 
feelings for him—” 


“Because you don’t give a shit about anyone but yourself.” 
“That is unfair. What am I supposed to do?” 
“Get him to stop failing people.” 


“Get him—” Olive sputtered. “Greg, how is this a rational 
response for you to have about Adam’s failing you—” 


“Ah. Adam, is it?” 


She gritted her teeth. “Yes. Adam. What should I call my 
boyfriend to better please you? Professor Carlsen?” 


“If you were a half-decent ally to any of the grads in the 
department, you would just dump your fucking boyfriend.” 


“How— Do you even realize how little sense you are...” 


No reason to finish her sentence, since Greg was storming 
out of the lab and slamming the door behind him, clearly 
uninterested in anything Olive might have wanted to add. She 
ran a hand down her face, unsettled by what had just 
happened. 


“He’s not... he doesn’t really mean it. Not about you, at 
least,” Chase said while scratching his head. A nice reminder 
that he’d been standing there, in the room, for the entirety of 
this conversation. Front-row seat. It was going to take maybe 
fifteen minutes before everyone in the program knew about it. 
“Greg needs to graduate in the spring with his wife. So that 
they can find postdocs together. They don’t want to live apart, 
you know.” 


She nodded—she hadn’t known, but she could imagine. 
Some of her anger dissipated. “Yeah, well.” Being horrible to 
me isn t going to make his thesis work go any faster, she didn’t 
add. 


Chase sighed. “It’s not personal. But you have to 
understand that it’s weird for us. Because Carlsen . .. Maybe 
he wasn’t on any of your committees, but you must know the 
kind of guy he is, right?” 


She was unsure how to respond. 


“And now you guys are dating, and . . .” Chase shrugged 
with a nervous smile. “It shouldn’t be a matter of taking sides, 
but sometimes it can feel like it, you know?” 


Chase’s words lingered for the rest of the day. Olive 
thought about them as she ran her mice through her 
experimental protocols, and then later while she tried to figure 
out what to do with those two outliers that made her findings 


tricky to interpret. She mulled it over while biking home, hot 
wind warming her cheeks and ruffling her hair, and while 
eating two slices of the saddest pizza ever. Malcolm had been 
on a health kick for weeks now (something about cultivating 
his gut microbiome) and refused to admit that cauliflower 
crust did not taste good. 


Among her friends, Malcolm and Jeremy had had 
unpleasant dealings with Adam in the past, but after the initial 
shock they didn’t seem to hold Olive’s relationship with him 
against her. She hadn’t concerned herself too much with the 
feelings of other grads. She had always been a bit of a loner, 
and focusing on the opinion of people she barely interacted 
with seemed like a wasteful use of time and energy. Still, 
maybe there was a glimmer of truth in what Greg had said. 
Adam had been anything but a jerk to Olive, but did accepting 
his help while he acted horribly toward her fellow grads make 
her a bad person? 


Olive lay on her unmade bed, looking up at the glow-in- 
the-dark stars. It had been more than two years since she’d 
borrowed Malcolm’s stepladder and carefully stuck them on 
the ceiling; the glue was starting to give out, and the large 
comet in the corner by the window was going to fall off any 
day. Without letting herself think it through too much, she 
rolled out of bed and rummaged inside the pockets of her 
discarded jeans until she found her cell phone. 


She hadn’t used Adam’s number since he’d given it to her a 
few days ago—“If anything comes up or you need to cancel, 
just give me a call. It’s quicker than an email.” When she 
tapped the blue icon under his name a white screen popped up, 
a blank slate with no history of previous messages. It gave 
Olive an odd rush of anxiety, so much so that she typed the 
text with one hand while biting the thumbnail on the other. 


Olive: Did you just fail Greg? 


Adam was never on his phone. Never. Whenever Olive had 
been in his company, she’d not seen him check it even once— 
even though with a lab as big as his he probably got about 
thirty new emails every minute. Truth was, she didn’t even 
know that he owned a cell phone. Maybe he was a weird 
modern-day hippie and hated technology. Maybe he’d given 
her his office landline number, and that’s why he’d told her to 
call him. Maybe he didn’t know how to text, which meant that 
Olive was never going to get an answer from— 


Her palm vibrated. 
Adam: Olive? 


It occurred to her that when Adam had given her his 
number, she’d neglected to give hers in return. Which meant 
that he had no way of knowing who was texting him now, and 
the fact that he’d guessed correctly revealed an almost 
preternatural intuition. 


Damn him. 
Olive: Yup. Me. 


Olive: Did you fail Greg Cohen? | ran into him after his meeting. He 
was very upset. 

At me. Because of you. Because of this stupid thing we’re 
doing. 


There was a pause of a minute or so, in which, Olive 
reflected, Adam might very well be cackling evilly at the idea 
of all the pain he’d caused Greg. Then he answered: 


Adam: | can't discuss other grads’ dissertation meetings with you. 


Olive sighed, exchanging a loaded look with the stuffed fox 
Malcolm had gotten her for passing her qualifying 
examinations. 

Olive: I’m not asking you to tell me anything. Greg already told me. 


Not to mention that I’m the one taking the heat for it, since I’m your 
girlfriend. 


Olive: "Girlfriend.” 


Three dots appeared at the bottom of her screen. Then they 
disappeared, and then they appeared again, and then, finally, 
Olive’s phone vibrated. 


Adam: Committees don’t fail students. They fail their proposals. 
She snorted, half wishing he could hear her. 
Olive: Yeah, well. Tell it to Greg. 


Adam: | have. | explained the weaknesses in his study. He'll revise 
his proposal accordingly, and then I'll sign off on his dissertation. 


Olive: So you admit that you are the one behind the decision to fail 
him. 


Olive: Or, whatever. To fail his proposal. 


Adam: Yes. In its current state, the proposal is not going to produce 
findings of scientific value. 

Olive bit the inside of her cheek, staring at her phone and 
wondering if continuing this conversation was a terrible idea. 
If what she wanted to say was too much. Then she 
remembered the way Greg had treated her earlier, muttered, 
“Fuck it,” and typed: 


Olive: Don’t you think that maybe you could have delivered that 
feedback in a nicer way? 


Adam: Why? 

Olive: Because if you had maybe he wouldn't be upset now? 

Adam: | still don’t see why. 

Olive: Seriously? 

Adam: It’s not my job to manage your friend's emotions. He's in a 
Ph.D. program, not grade school. He'll be inundated by feedback he 
doesn't like for the rest of his life if he pursues academia. How he 


chooses to deal with it is his own business. 


Olive: Still, maybe you could try not to look like you enjoy delaying 
his graduation. 


Adam: This is irrational. The reason his proposal needs to be 
modified is that in its current state it’s setting him up for failure. Me and 
the rest of the committee are giving him feedback that will allow him to 
produce useful knowledge. He is a scientist in training: he should value 
guidance, not be upset by it. 


Olive gritted her teeth as she typed her responses. 


Olive: You must know that you fail more people than anyone else. 
And your criticism is needlessly harsh. As in, immediately-drop-out-of- 
grad-school-and-never-look-back harsh. You must know how grads 
perceive you. 


Adam: | don't. 
Olive: Antagonistic. And unapproachable. 


And that was sugarcoating it. You’re a dick, Olive meant. 
Except that I know you can not be, and I cant figure out why 
you re so different with me. I’m absolutely nothing to you, so it 
doesnt make any sense that you'd have a personality 
transplant every time you’re in my presence. 


The three dots at the bottom of the screen bounced for ten 
seconds, twenty, thirty. A whole minute. Olive reread her last 
text and wondered if this was it—if she’d finally gone too far. 
Maybe he was going to remind her that being insulted over 
text at 9:00 p.m. on a Friday night was not part of their fake- 
dating agreement. 


Then a blue bubble appeared, filling up her entire screen. 


Adam: I'm doing my job, Olive. Which is not to deliver feedback in a 
pleasant way or to make the department grads feel good about 
themselves. My job is to form rigorous researchers who won't publish 
useless or harmful crap that will set back our field. Academia is cluttered 
with terrible science and mediocre scientists. | couldn't care less about 
how your friends perceive me, as long as their work is up to standard. If 
they want to drop out when told that it’s not, then so be it. Not everyone 
has what it takes to be a scientist, and those who don't should be weeded 
out. 


She stared at her phone, hating how unfeeling and callous 
he sounded. The problem was—Olive understood exactly 
where Greg was coming from, because she’d been in similar 


situations. Perhaps not with Adam, but her overall experience 
in STEM academia had been punctuated by self-doubt, 
anxiety, and a sense of inferiority. She’d barely slept the two 
weeks before her qualifying exams, often wondered if her fear 
of public speaking was going to prevent her from having a 
career, and she was constantly terrified of being the stupidest 
person in the room. And yet, most of her time and energy was 
spent trying to be the best possible scientist, trying to carve a 
path for herself and amount to something. The idea of 
someone dismissing her work and her feelings this 
coldheartedly cut deep, which is why her response was so 
immature, it was almost fetal. 


Olive: Well, fuck you, Adam. 


She immediately regretted it, but for some reason she 
couldn’t bring herself to send an apology. It wasn’t until 
twenty minutes later that she realized that Adam wasn’t going 
to reply. A warning popped up on the upper part of her screen, 
informing her that her battery was at 5 percent. 


With a deep sigh, Olive stood up from her bed and looked 
around the room in search of her charger. 


“NOW GO RIGHT.” 


“Got it.” Malcolm’s finger flicked the turn signal lever. A 
clicking sound filled the small car. “Going right.” 


“No, don’t listen to Jeremy. Turn left.” 


Jeremy leaned forward and swatted Anh’s arm. “Malcolm, 
trust me. Anh has never been to the farm. It’s on the right.” 


“Google Maps says left.” 


“Google Maps is wrong.” 


“What do I do?” Malcolm made a face in the rearview 
mirror. “Left? Right? Ol, what do I do?” 


In the back seat, Olive looked up from the car window and 
shrugged. “Try right; if it’s wrong, we'll just turn around.” She 
shot Anh a quick, apologetic glance, but she and Jeremy were 
too busy mock-glaring at each other to notice. 


Malcolm grimaced. “We’ll be late. God, I hate these stupid 
picnics.” 


“We are, like’—Olive glanced at the car’s clock—“one 
hour late, already. I think we can add ten minutes to that.” J 
just hope theres some food left. Her stomach had been 
growling for the past two hours, and there was no way 
everyone in the car hadn’t noticed. 


After her argument with Adam three days ago, she’d been 
tempted to just skip the picnic. Hole herself up in the lab and 
continue with what she had been doing the whole weekend— 
ignore the fact that she had told him to fuck off, and with very 
little reason. She could use the time to work on Tom’s report, 
which was proving to be trickier and more time-consuming 
than she’d initially thought—probably because Olive couldn’t 
forget how much was at stake and kept rerunning analyses and 
agonizing over every single sentence. But she’d changed her 
mind last minute, telling herself that she’d promised Adam 
that they’d put on a show for the department chair. It would be 
unfair of her to back out after he’d done more than his share of 
the deal when it came to convincing Anh. 


That was, of course, in the very unlikely case that he still 
wanted anything to do with Olive. 


“Don’t worry, Malcolm,’ Anh said. “We’ll get there 
eventually. If anyone asks, let’s just say that a mountain lion 
attacked us. God, why is it so hot? I brought sunblock, by the 
way. SPF thirty and fifty. No one is going anywhere before 
putting it on.” 


In the back seat Olive and Jeremy exchanged a resigned 
look, well acquainted with Anh’s sunscreen obsession. 


The picnic was in full swing when they finally arrived, as 
crowded as most academic events with free food. Olive made 
a beeline for the tables and waved at Dr. Aslan, who was 
sitting in the shade of a giant oak with other faculty members. 
Dr. Aslan waved back, no doubt pleased to note that her 
authority extended to commandeering her grads’ free time on 
top of the eighty hours a week they already spent in the lab. 
Olive smiled weakly in a valiant attempt not to look resentful, 
grabbed a cluster of white grapes, and popped one into her 
mouth while letting her gaze wander around the fields. 


Anh was right. This September was uncommonly hot. 
There were people everywhere, sitting on the lawn chairs, 
lying down in the grass, walking in and out of the barns—all 
enjoying the weather. A few were eating from plastic plates on 
folding tables close to the main house, and there were at least 
three games going on—a version of volleyball with the players 
standing in a circle, a soccer match, and something that 
involved a Frisbee and over a dozen half-dressed dudes. 


“What are they even playing?” Olive asked Anh. She 
spotted Dr. Rodrigues tackle someone from immunology and 
looked back to the almost empty tables, cringing. Slim 
pickings was all that was left. Olive wanted a sandwich. A bag 
of chips. Anything. 


“Ultimate Frisbee, I think? I don’t know. Did you put on 
sunblock? You’re wearing a tank top and shorts, so you really 
should.” 


Olive bit into another grape. “You Americans and your 
fake sports.” 


“Pm pretty sure there are Canadian tournaments of 
Ultimate Frisbee, too. You know what’s not fake?” 


“What?” 


“Melanoma. Put on some sunscreen.” 
“T will, Mom.” Olive smiled. “Can I eat first?” 


“Eat what? There’s nothing left. Oh, there’s some corn 
bread over there.” 


“Oh, cool. Pass it over.” 


“Don’t eat the corn bread, guys.” Jeremy’s head popped up 
between Olive and Anh. “Jess said that a pharmacology first- 
year sneezed all over it. Where did Malcolm go?” 


“Parking— Holy. Shit.” 


Olive looked up from her perusal of the table, alarmed by 
the urgency in Anh’s tone. “What?” 


“Just, holy shit.” 

“Yeah, what—” 

“Holy shit.” 

“You mentioned that already.” 
“Because—holy shit.” 


She glanced around, trying to figure out what was going 
on. “What is— Oh, there’s Malcolm. Maybe he found 
something to eat?” 


“Ts that Carlsen?” 


Olive was already walking toward Malcolm to find 
something edible and skip the whole sunscreen nonsense 
altogether, but when she heard Adam’s name, she stopped 
dead in her tracks. Or maybe it wasn’t Adam’s name but the 
way Anh was saying it. “What? Where?” 


Jeremy pointed at the Ultimate Frisbee crowd. “That’s him, 
right? Shirtless?” 


“Holy shit,’ Anh repeated, her vocabulary suddenly pretty 
limited, given her twentysomething years of education. “Is that 


a six-pack?” 
Jeremy blinked. “Might even be an eight-pack.” 


“Are those his real shoulders?” Anh asked. “Did he have 
shoulder-enhancement surgery?” 


“That must be how he used the MacArthur grant,” Jeremy 
said. “I don’t think shoulders like that exist in nature.” 


“God, is that Carlsen’s chest?” Malcolm leaned his chin 
over Olive’s shoulder. “Was that thing under his shirt while he 
was ripping my dissertation proposal a new one? OL Why 
didn’t you say that he was shredded?” 


Olive just stood there, rooted to the ground, arms dangling 
uselessly at her sides. Because I didn t know. Because I had no 
idea. Or maybe she had, a bit, from seeing him push that truck 
the other day—though she’d been trying to suppress that 
particular mental image. 


“Unbelievable.” Anh pulled Olive’s hand toward herself, 
overturning it to squirt a healthy dose of lotion on her palm. 
“Here, put this on your shoulders. And your legs. And your 
face, too—you’re probably at high risk for all sorts of skin 
stuff, Freckles McFreckleface. Jer, you too.” 


Olive nodded numbly and began to massage the sunscreen 
into her arms and thighs. She breathed in the smell of coconut 
oil, trying hard not to think about Adam and about the fact that 
he really did look like that. Mostly failing, but hey. 


“Are there actual studies?” Jeremy asked. 
“Mmm?” Anh was pulling her hair up in a bun. 
“On the link between freckles and skin cancer.” 
“I don’t know.” 

“Feels like there would be.” 


“True. I wanna know now.” 


“Hold on. Is there Wi-Fi here?” 
“Ol, do you have internet?” 


Olive wiped her hands on a napkin that looked mostly 
unused. “I left my phone in Malcolm’s car.” 


She turned her head away from Anh and Jeremy, who were 
now studying the screen of Jeremy’s iPhone, until she had a 
good view of the Ultimate Frisbee group—fourteen men and 
zero women. It probably had to do with the general excess of 
testosterone in STEM programs. At least half the players were 
faculty or postdocs. Adam, of course, and Tom, and Dr. 
Rodrigues, and several others from pharmacology. All equally 
shirtless. Though, no. Not equal at all. There was really 
nothing equal about Adam. 


Olive wasn’t like this. She really was not. She could count 
the number of guys she’d been this viscerally attracted to on 
one hand. Actually—on one finger. And at the moment said 
guy was running toward her, because Tom Benton, bless his 
heart, had just thrown the Frisbee way too clumsily, and it was 
now in a patch of grass approximately ten feet from Olive. 
And Adam, shirtless Adam, just happened to be the one 
closest to where it landed. 


“Oh, check out this paper.” Jeremy sounded excited. 


“Khalesi et al., 2013. It’s a meta-analysis. ‘Cutaneous 
markers of photo-damage and risk of basal cell carcinoma of 
the skin.’ In Cancer Epidemiology, Biomarkers &amp; Prevention.” 


Jeremy fist-pumped. “Olive, are you listening to this?” 


Nope. No, she was not. She was mostly trying to empty her 
brain, and her eyes, too. Of her fake boyfriend and the sudden 
warm ache in her stomach. She just wished she were 
elsewhere. That she were temporarily blind and deaf. 


“Hear this: solar lentigines had weak but positive 
associations with basal cell carcinoma, with odds ratios around 


1.5. Okay, I don’t like this. Jeremy, hold the phone. I’m giving 
Olive more sunscreen. Here’s SPF fifty; it’s probably what you 
need.” 


Olive tore her eyes from Adam’s chest, now alarmingly 
close, and turned around, stepping away from Anh. “Wait. I 
already put some on.” 


“Ol,” Anh told her, with that sensible, motherly tone she 
used whenever Olive slipped and confessed that she mostly 
got her veggie servings from french fries, or that she washed 
her colors and whites in the same load. “You know the 
literature.” 


“I do not know the literature, and neither do you, you just 
know one line from one abstract and—” 


Anh grabbed Olive’s hand again and poured half a gallon 
of lotion in it. So much of it that Olive had to use her left palm 
to prevent it from spilling over—until she was just standing 
there like an idiot, her hands cupped like a beggar as she half 
drowned in goddamn sunscreen. 


“Here you go.” Anh smiled brightly. “Now you can protect 
yourself from basal cell carcinoma. Which, frankly, sounds 
awful.” 


“I...” Olive would have face-palmed, if she’d had the 
freedom to move her upper limbs. “I hate sunscreen. It’s sticky 
and it makes me smell like a piña colada and—this is way too 
much.” 


“Just put on as much as your skin will absorb. Especially 
around the freckled areas. The rest, you can share with 
someone.” 


“Okay. Anh, then, you take some. You too, Jeremy. You’re 
a ginger, for God’s sake.” 


“A redhead with no freckles, though.” He smiled proudly, 
like he’d created his genotype all on his own. “And I already 


put on a ton. Thanks, babe.” He leaned down for a brief kiss to 
Anh’s cheek, which almost devolved into a make-out session. 


Olive tried not to sigh. “Guys, what do I do with this?” 
“Just find someone else. Where did Malcolm go?” 
Jeremy snorted. “Over there, with Jude.” 

“Jude?” Anh frowned. 

“Yeah, that neuro fifth-year.” 

“The MD-Ph.D.? Are they dating or—” 


“Guys.” It took Olive all she had not to yell. “I have no 
mobility. Please, fix this sunscreen mess you created.” 


“God, Ol.” Anh rolled her eyes. “You’re so dramatic 
sometimes. Hang on—” She waved at someone behind Olive, 
and when she spoke, her voice was much louder. “Hey, Dr. 
Carlsen! Have you put on sunscreen yet?” 


In the span of a microsecond Olive’s entire brain burst into 
flames—and then crumbled into a pile of ashes. Just like that, 
one hundred billion neurons, one thousand billion glial cells, 
and who knew how many milliliters of cerebrospinal fluid, just 
ceased to exist. The rest of her body was not doing very well, 
either, since Olive could feel all her organs shut down in real 
time. From the very beginning of her acquaintance with Adam 
there had been about ten instances of Olive wishing to drop 
dead on the spot, for the earth to open and swallow her whole, 
for a cataclysm to hit and spare her from the embarrassment of 
their interactions. This time, though, it felt as though the end 
of the world might happen for real. 


Dont turn around, what’s left of her central nervous 
system told her. Pretend you didnt hear Anh. Will this into 
nonexistence. But it was impossible. There was this triangle of 
sorts, formed by Olive, and Anh in front of her, and Adam 
probably—surely—standing behind her; it wasn’t as if Olive 


had a choice. Any choice. Especially when Adam, who 
couldn’t possibly imagine the depraved direction of Anh’s 
thoughts, who couldn’t possibly see the bucketful of sunscreen 
that had taken residence in Olive’s hands, said, “No.” 


Well. Shit. 


Olive spun around, and there he was—sweaty, holding a 
Frisbee in his left hand, and so very, very shirtless. “Perfect, 
then!” Anh said, sounding so chipper. “Olive has way too 
much and was wondering what to do with it. She’ll put some 
on you!” 


No. No, no, no. “I can’t,” she hissed at Anh. “It would be 
highly inappropriate.” 


“Why?” Anh blinked at her innocently. “I put sunscreen on 
Jeremy all the time. Look’—she squirted lotion on her hand 
and haphazardly slapped it across Jeremy’s face— “I am 
putting sunscreen on my boyfriend. Because I don’t want him 
to get melanoma. Am I ‘inappropriate’?” 


Olive was going to murder her. Olive was going to make 
her lick every drop of this stupid sunscreen and watch her 
writhe in pain as she slowly died of oxybenzone poisoning. 


Later, though. For now, Adam was looking at her, 
expression completely unreadable, and Olive would have 
apologized, she would have crawled under the table, she 
would have at least waved at him—but all she could do was 
stare and notice that even though the last time they’d talked 
she’d insulted him, he didn’t really seem angry. Just thoughtful 
and a little confused as he looked between Olive’s face and the 
small lake of white goop that now lived in her hands, probably 
trying to figure out if there was a way to get out of this latest 
shitshow—and then, finally, just giving up on it. 


He nodded once, minutely, and turned around, the muscles 
in his back shifting as he threw Dr. Rodrigues the Frisbee and 
yelled, “I’m taking five!” 


Which, Olive assumed, meant that they were actually doing 
this. Of course they damn were. Because this was her life, and 
these were her poor, moronic, harebrained choices. 


“Hey,” Adam said to her once they were closer. He was 
looking at her hands, at the way she had to hold them in front 
of her body like a supplicant. Behind her, Anh and Jeremy 
were no doubt ogling them. 


“Hey.” She was wearing flip-flops, and he had sneakers on, 
and—he was always tall, but right now he towered over her. It 
put her eyes right in front of his pecs, and . . . No. Nope. Not 
doing that. 


“Can you turn around?” 


He hesitated for a moment, but then he did, 
uncharacteristically obedient. Which ended up resolving none 
of Olive’s problems, since his back was in no way less broad 
or impressive than his chest. 


“Can you, um... duck a bit?” 


Adam bent his head until his shoulders were . . . still 
abnormally high but somewhat easier to reach. As she lifted 
her right hand, some of the lotion dripped to the ground— 
Where it belongs, she thought savagely—and then she was 
doing it, this thing that she had never thought she would ever, 
ever do. Putting sunscreen on Adam Carlsen. 


It wasn’t her first time touching him. Therefore, she 
shouldn’t have been surprised by how hard his muscles were, 
or that there was no give to his flesh. Olive remembered the 
way he’d pushed the truck, imagined that he could probably 
bench-press three times her weight, and then ordered herself to 
stop, because that was not an appropriate train of thought. 
Still, the issue remained that there was nothing between her 
hand and his skin. He was hot from the sun, his shoulders 
relaxed and immobile under her touch. Even in public, close as 
they were, it felt like something intimate was happening. 


“So.” Her mouth was dry. “This might be a good time to 
mention how sorry I am that we keep getting stuck in these 
situations.” 


“It’s fine.” 

“I really am, though.” 

“It’s not your fault.” There was an edge in his voice. 
“Are you okay?” 


“Yep.” He nodded, though the movement seemed taut. 
Which had Olive realizing that maybe he was not as relaxed as 
she’d initially thought. 


“How much do you hate this, on a scale from one to 
‘correlation equals causation’?” 


He surprised her by chuckling, though he still sounded 
strained. “I don’t hate it. And it’s not your fault.” 


“Because I know this is the worst possible thing, and—” 


“Tt isn’t. Olive.” He turned a bit to look her in the eyes, a 
mix of amusement and that odd tension. “These things are 
going to keep on happening.” 


“Right.” 


His fingers brushed softly against her left palm as he stole a 
bit of her sunscreen for his front. Which, all in all, was for the 
best. She really didn’t want to be massaging lotion into his 
chest in front of 70 percent of her Ph.D. program—not to 
mention her boss, since Dr. Aslan was probably watching them 
like a hawk. Or maybe she wasn’t. Olive had no intention of 
turning around to check. She’d rather live in less-than-blissful 
ignorance. “Mostly because you hang out with some really 
nosy people.” 


She burst out laughing. “I know. Believe me, I’m really 
regretting befriending Anh right now. Kind of contemplating 
assassinating her, to tell the truth.” 


She moved to his shoulder blades. He had a lot of small 
moles and freckles, and she wondered exactly how 
inappropriate it would be if she played connect the dots on 
them with her fingers. She could just imagine the amazing 
pictures it would reveal. 


“But hey, the long-term benefits of sunscreen have been 
proven by scientists. And you are pretty pale. Here, duck a bit 
more, so I can get your neck.” 


“Mmm.” 


She walked around him to get to the front part of his 
shoulders. He was so big, she was going to have to use all this 
stupid lotion. Might even need to ask Anh for more. “At least 
the department chair is getting a show. And you look like 
you’re having fun.” 


He glanced pointedly at the way her hand was spreading 
sunscreen on his collarbone. Olive’s cheeks burned. “No, I 
mean—not because I am . . . I meant, you look like you’re 
having a good time playing Frisbee. Or whatever.” 


He made a face. “Beats chitchatting, for sure.” 


She laughed. “That makes sense. I bet that’s why you’re so 
fit. You played lots of sports growing up because it got you out 
of talking with people. It also explains why now that you’re an 
adult your personality is so—” Olive stopped short. 


Adam lifted one eyebrow. “Antagonistic and 
unapproachable?” 


Crap. “I didn’t say that.” 
“You just typed it.” 


“T-I’m sorry. Im very sorry. I didn’t mean to—” She 
pressed her lips together, flustered. Then she noticed that the 
corners of his eyes were crinkling. “Damn you.” 


She pinched him lightly on the underside of his arm. He 
yelped and smiled wider, which made her wonder what he 
would do if she retaliated by writing her name with sunscreen 
on his chest, just enough for him to only get a tan around it. 
She tried to imagine his face after taking off his T-shirt, 
finding the five letters printed on his flesh in the reflection of 
his bathroom mirror. The expression he’d make. Whether he’d 
touch them with his fingertips. 


Crazy, she told herself. This whole thing, it’s driving you 
crazy. So hes handsome, and you find him attractive. Big deal. 
Who cares? 


She wiped her mostly lotion-free hands down the columns 
of his biceps and took a step back. “You’re good to go, Dr. 
Antagonistic.” 


He smelled of fresh sweat, himself, and coconut. Olive 
wasn’t going to get to talk with him again until Wednesday, 
and why the thought came with an odd pang in her chest, she 
had no clue. 


“Thanks. And thank Anh, I guess.” 

“Mm. What do you think she’ll have us do next time?” 
He shrugged. “Hold hands?” 

“Feed each other strawberries?” 

“Good one.” 

“Maybe she’ll up her game.” 

“Fake wedding?” 

“Fake-buy a house together?” 

“Fake-sign the mortgage paperwork?” 


Olive laughed, and the way he looked at her, kind and 
curious and patient . . . she must be hallucinating it. Her head 
was not right. She should have brought a sun hat. 


“Hey, Olive.” 


She tore her gaze from Adam’s and noticed Tom 
approaching. He, too, was shirtless, and clearly fit, and had a 
large number of abs that were defined enough to be easily 
counted. And yet, for some reason, it did absolutely nothing 
for Olive. 


“Hi, Tom.” She smiled, even though she was a little 
irritated by the interruption. “Loved your talk the other day.” 


“It was good, wasn’t it? Did Adam tell you about our 
change of plans?” 


She tilted her head. “Change of plans?” 


“We’ve been making great progress on the grant, so we’re 
going to Boston next week to finish setting up stuff on the 
Harvard side.” 


“Oh, that’s great.” She turned to Adam. “How long will 
you be gone?” 


“Just a few days.” His tone was quiet. Olive felt relief that 
it wasn’t going to be longer. For indiscernible reasons. 


“Would you be able to send me your report by Saturday, 
Olive?” Tom asked. “Then Pll have the weekend to look it 
over, and we’ll discuss it while I’m still here.” 


Her brain exploded in a flurry of panic and bright red-alert 
signs, but she managed to keep her smile in place. “Yeah, of 
course. I'll send it to you on Saturday.” Oh God. Oh God. She 
was going to have to work around the clock. She wasn’t going 
to get any sleep this week. She was going to have to bring her 
laptop to the toilet and write while she peed. “No problem at 
all,” she added, leaning even harder into her lie. 


“Perfect.” Tom winked at her, or maybe just squinted in the 
sun. “You going back to play?” he asked Adam, and when 


Adam nodded, Tom spun around and headed back into the 
game. 


Adam hesitated for just a second longer, then he nodded at 
Olive and left. She tried hard not to stare at his back as he 
rejoined his team, which seemed to be overjoyed to have him 
again. Clearly, sports were another thing Adam Carlsen 
excelled at—unfairly so. 


She didn’t even have to check to know that Anh and 
Jeremy and pretty much everyone else had been staring at 
them for the past five minutes. She fished a seltzer can out of 
the nearest cooler, reminding herself that this was exactly what 
they wanted from this arrangement, and then found a spot 
under an oak tree next to her friends—all this sunscreen fuss, 
and now they were sitting in the shade. Go figure. 


She wasn’t even that hungry anymore, a small miracle 
courtesy of having to apply sunscreen to her fake boyfriend 
very publicly. 


“So, what’s he like?” Anh asked. She was lying down with 
her head on Jeremy’s lap. Above her, Malcolm was staring at 
the Frisbee players, probably swooning over how pretty 
Holden Rodrigues looked in the sun. 


“Mm?” 


“Carlsen. Oh, actually” —Anh smirked—“I meant to say 
Adam. You call him Adam, right? Or do you prefer Dr. 
Carlsen? If you guys role-play with schoolgirl uniforms and 
rulers, I totally want to hear about it.” 


“Anh.” 


“Yeah, how is Carlsen?” Jeremy asked. “I’m assuming he’s 
different with you than with us. Or does he also tell you 
repeatedly that the font for the labels of your x- and y-axis is 
irritatingly small?” 


Olive smiled into her knees, because she could totally 
imagine Adam saying that. Could almost hear his voice in her 
head. “No. Not yet, at least.” 


“What’s he like, then?” 


She opened her mouth to answer, thinking it would be easy. 
Of course, it was everything but. “He’s just . . . you know.” 


“We don’t,” Anh said. “There must be more to him than 
meets the eye. He’s so moody and negative and angry and—” 


“He’s not,” Olive interrupted. And then regretted it a little, 
because it wasn’t entirely true. “He can be. But he can not be, 
too.” 


“If you say so.” Anh seemed unconvinced. “How did you 
even start dating? You never told me.” 


“Oh.” Olive looked away and let her gaze wander. Adam 
must have just done something noteworthy, because he and Dr. 
Rodrigues were exchanging a high five. She noticed Tom 
staring at her from the field and waved at him with a smile. 
“Um, we just talked. And then got coffee. And then...” 


“How does that even happen?” Jeremy interrupted, clearly 
skeptical. “How does one decide to say yes to a date with 
Carlsen? Before seeing him half-naked, anyway.” 


You kiss him. You kiss him, and then, next thing you know, 
he’s saving your ass and he’s buying you scones and calling 
you a smart-ass in a weirdly affectionate tone, and even when 
he being his moody asshole self, he doesnt seem to be that 
bad. Or bad at all. And then you tell him to fuck off over the 
phone and possibly ruin everything. 


“He just asked me out. And I said yes.” Though it was 
obviously a lie. Someone with a Lancet publication and back 
muscles that defined would never ask someone like Olive out. 


“So you didn’t meet on Tinder?” 


“What? No.” 

“Because that’s what people are saying.” 
“T’m not on Tinder.” 

“Ts Carlsen?” 


No. Maybe. Yes? Olive massaged her temples. “Who’s 
saying that we met on Tinder?” 


“Actually, rumor’s that they met on Craigslist,’ Malcolm 
said distractedly, waving at someone. She followed his gaze 
and noticed that he was staring at Holden Rodrigues—who 
appeared to be smiling and waving back. 


Olive frowned. Then she parsed what Malcolm had just 
said. “Craigslist?” 


Malcolm shrugged. “Not saying that I believed it.” 


“Who are people? And why are they even talking about 
us?” 


Anh reached up to pat Olive on the shoulder. “Don’t worry, 
the gossip about you and Carlsen died down after Dr. Moss 
and Sloane had that very public argument about people 
disposing of blood samples in the ladies’ restroom. Well, for 
the most part. Hey.” 


She sat up and wrapped an arm around Olive, pulling her in 
for an embrace. She smelled like coconut. Stupid, stupid 
sunscreen. 


“Chill. I know some people have been weird about this, but 
Jeremy and Malcolm and I are just happy for you, Ol.” Anh 
smiled at her reassuringly, and Olive felt herself relax. “Mostly 
that you’re finally getting laid.” 


Chapter Hanh 


ef HYPOTHESIS: On a Likert scale ranging from one to ten, 
Jeremy's timing will be negative fifty, with a standard error of the 
mean of zero point two. 


Number  thirty-seven—salt-and-vinegar potato chips—was 
sold out. It was frankly inexplicable: Olive had come in at 
8:00 p.m., and there had been at least one bag left in the break 
room’s vending machine. She distinctly remembered patting 
the back pocket of her jeans for quarters, and the feeling of 
triumph at finding exactly four. She recalled looking forward 
to that moment, approximately two hours later, by which time 
she estimated that she’d have completed exactly a third of her 
work and would thus be able to reward herself with the 
indisputable best among the snacks that the fourth floor had to 
offer. Except that the moment had come, and there were no 
chips left. Which was a problem, because Olive had already 
inserted her precious quarters inside the coin slot, and she was 


very hungry. 


She selected number twenty-four (Twix)—which was okay, 
though not her favorite by a long shot—and listened to its dull, 
disappointing thud as it fell to the bottom shelf. Then she bent 
to pick it up, staring wistfully at the way the gold wrapper 
shined in her palm. 


“I wish you were salt-and-vinegar chips,” she whispered at 
it, a trace of resentment in her voice. 


“Here.” 


“Aaah!” She startled and instantly turned around, hands in 
front of her body and ready to defend—possibly even to 


attack. But the only person in the break room was Adam, 
sitting on one of the small couches in the middle, looking at 
her with a bland, slightly amused expression. 


She relaxed her pose and clutched her hands to her chest, 
willing her racing heartbeat to slow down. “When did you get 
here?!” 


“Five minutes ago?” He regarded her calmly. “I was here 
when you came in.” 


“Why didn’t you say something?” 
He tilted his head. “I could ask the same.” 


She covered her mouth with her hand, trying to recover 
from the scare. “I didn’t see you. Why are you sitting in the 
dark like a creep?” 


“Light’s broken. As usual.” Adam lifted his drink—a bottle 
of Coke that hilariously read “Seraphina’—and Olive 
remembered Jess, one of his grads, complaining about how 
strict Adam was about bringing food and drinks into his lab. 
He grabbed something from the cushion and held it out to 
Olive. “Here. You can have the rest of the chips.” 


Olive narrowed her eyes. “You.” 
“Me?” 
“You stole my chips.” 


His mouth curved. “Sorry. You can have what’s left.” He 
peeked into the bag. “I didn’t have many, I don’t think.” 


She hesitated and then made her way to the couch. She 
distrustfully accepted the small bag and took a seat next to 
him. “Thanks, I guess.” 


He nodded, taking a sip of his drink. She tried not to stare 
at his throat as he tipped his head back, averting her eyes to 
her knees. 


“Should you be having caffeine at’—Olive glanced at the 
clock—“ten twenty-seven p.m.?” Come to think of it, he 
shouldn’t be having caffeine at all, given his baseline shiny 
personality. And yet the two of them got coffee together every 
Wednesday. Olive was nothing but an enabler. 


“I doubt Ill be sleeping much, anyway.” 
“Why?” 


“I need to run a set of last-minute analyses for a grant due 
on Sunday night.” 


“Oh.” She leaned back, finding a more comfortable 
position. “I thought you had minions for that.” 


“As it turns out, asking your grads to pull an all-nighter for 
you is frowned upon by HR.” 


“What a travesty.” 
“Truly. What about you?” 


“Tom’s report.” She sighed. “I’m supposed to send it to 
him tomorrow and there’s a section that I just don’t. . .” She 
sighed again. “I’m rerunning a few analyses, just to make sure 
that everything is perfect, but the equipment I’m working with 
is not exactly ... ugh.” 


“Have you told Aysegul?” 


Aysegul, he’d said. Naturally. Because Adam was a 
colleague of Dr. Aslan, not her grad, and it made sense that 
he’d think of her as Aysegul. It wasn’t the first time he’d 
called her that; it wasn’t even the first time Olive had noticed. 
It was just hard to reconcile, when they were sitting alone and 
talking quietly, that Adam was faculty and Olive was very 
much not. Worlds apart, really. 


“I did, but there’s no money to get anything better. She’s a 
great mentor, but . . . last year her husband got sick and she 
decided to retire early, and sometimes it feels like she’s 


stopped caring.” Olive rubbed her temple. She could feel a 
headache coming up and had a long night ahead of her. “Are 
you going to tell her I told you that?” 


“Of course.” 
She groaned. “Don’t.” 


“Might also tell her about the kisses you’ve been extorting, 
and the fake-dating scheme you roped me into, and above all 
about the sunscreen—” 


“Oh God.” Olive hid her face in her knees, arms coming up 
to wrap around her head. “God. The sunscreen.” 


“Yeah.” His voice sounded muffled from down here. 
“Yeah, that was...” 


“Awkward?” she offered, sitting back straight with a 
grimace. Adam was looking elsewhere. She was probably 
imagining it, the way he was flushing. 

He cleared his throat. “Among other things.” 


“Yep.” It had been other things, too. A lot of things that she 
was not going to mention, because her other things were sure 
to not be Ais other things. His other things were probably 
“terrible” and “harrowing” and “invasive.” While hers. . . 


“Is the sunscreen going in the Title IX complaint?” 


His mouth twitched. “Right on the first page. 
Nonconsensual sunblock application.” 


“Oh, come on. I saved you from basal cell carcinoma.” 
“Groped under SPF pretense.” 


She swatted him with her Twix, and he ducked a bit to 
avoid her, amused. “Hey, you want half of this? Since I fully 
plan to eat what’s left of your chips.” 


“Nah.” 


“You sure?” 


“Can’t stand chocolate.” 


Olive stared at him, shaking her head in disbelief. “You 
would, wouldn’t you? Hate everything that is delicious and 
lovely and comforting.” 


“Chocolate’s disgusting.” 


“You just want to live in your dark, bitter world made of 
black coffee and plain bagels with plain cream cheese. And 
occasionally salt-and-vinegar chips.” 


“They are clearly your favorite chips—” 


“Not the point.” 


(14 


and I am flattered that you’ve memorized my orders.” 
“Tt does help that they’re always the same.” 


“At least I’ve never ordered something called a unicorn 
Frappuccino.” 


“That was so good. It tasted like the rainbow.” 
“Like sugar and food coloring?” 


“My two favorite things in the universe. Thank you for 
buying it for me, by the way.” It had made for a nice fake- 
dating Wednesday treat this week, even though Olive had been 
so busy with Tom’s report that she hadn’t been able to 
exchange more than a couple of words with Adam. Which, she 
had to admit, had been a little disappointing. 


“Where’s Tom by the way, while you and I slave our Friday 
night away?” 


“Out. On a date, I think.” 
“On a date? Does his girlfriend live here?” 
“Tom has lots of girlfriends. In lots of places.” 


“But are any of them fake?” She beamed at him, and could 
tell that he was tempted to smile back. “Would you like half a 


dollar, then? For the chips?” 
“Keep it.” 
“Great. Because it’s about a third of my monthly salary.” 


She actually managed to make him laugh, and—it didn’t 
just transform his face, it changed the entire space they were 
inhabiting. Olive had to convince her lungs not to stop 
working, to keep taking in oxygen, and her eyes not to get lost 
in the little lines at the corners of his eyes, the dimples in the 
center of his cheeks. “Glad to hear that grad students’ stipends 
have not increased since I was one.” 


“Did you use to live on instant ramen and bananas during 
your Ph.D., too?” 


“I don’t like bananas, but I remember having lots of 
apples.” 


“Apples are expensive, you fiscally irresponsible splurger.” 
She tilted her head and wondered if it was okay to ask the one 
thing she’d been dying to know. She told herself that it was 
probably inappropriate—and then went for it anyway. “How 
old are you?” 


“Thirty-four.” 


“Oh. Wow.” She’d thought younger. Or older, maybe. 
She’d thought he existed in an ageless dimension. It was so 
weird to hear a number. To have a year of birth, almost a 
whole decade before hers. “I’m twenty-six.” Olive wasn’t sure 
why she offered up the information, since he hadn’t asked. 
“It’s odd to think that you used to be a student, too.” 


“Ts it?” 
“Yep. Were you like this as an undergrad, too?” 
“Like this?” 


“You know.” She batted her eyes at him. “Antagonistic and 
unapproachable.” 


He glared, but she was starting to not take that too 
seriously. “I might have been worse, actually.” 


“I bet.” There was a brief, comfortable silence as she sat 
back and began to tackle her bag of chips. It was all she’d ever 
wanted from a vending machine snack. “So does it get better?” 


“What?” 


“This.” She gestured inchoately around herself. 
“Academia. Does it get better, after grad school? Once you 
have tenure?” 


“No. God, no.” He looked so horrified by the assumption, 
she had to laugh. 


“Why do you stick around, then?” 


“Unclear.” There was a flash of something in his eyes that 
Olive couldn’t quite interpret, but—nothing surprising about 
that. There was a lot about Adam Carlsen she didn’t know. He 
was an ass, but with unexpected depths. “There’s an element 
of sunk-cost fallacy, probably—hard to step away, when 
you’ve invested so much time and energy. But the science 
makes it worth it. When it works, anyway.” 


She hummed, considering his words, and remembered The 
Guy in the bathroom. He’d said that academia was a lot of 
bucks for little bang, and that one needed a good reason to 
stick around. Olive wondered where he was now. If he’d 
managed to graduate. If he knew that he’d helped someone 
make one of the hardest decisions of their life. If he had any 
idea that there was a girl, somewhere in the world, who 
thought about their random encounter surprisingly often. 
Doubtful. 


“I know grad school is supposed to be miserable for 
everyone, but it’s depressing to see tenured faculty here on a 
Friday night, instead of, I don’t know, watching Netflix in bed, 
or getting dinner with their girlfriend—” 


“I thought you were my girlfriend.” 


Olive smiled up at him. “Not quite.” But, since we’re on 
the topic: why exactly don t you have one? Because it getting 
harder and harder for me to figure that one out. Except that 
maybe you just don t want one. Maybe you just want to be on 
your own, like everything about your behavior suggests, and 
here I am, annoying the shit out of you. I should just pocket my 
chips and my candy and go back to my stupid protein samples, 
but for some reason you are so comfortable to be around. And 
I am drawn to you, even though I don t know why. 


“Do you plan to stay in academia?” he asked. “After you 
graduate.” 


“Yes. Maybe. No.” 

He smiled, and Olive laughed. 
“Undecided.” 

“Right.” 


“It’s just . . . there are things that I love about it. Being in 
the lab, doing research. Coming up with study ideas, feeling 
that I’m doing something meaningful. But if I go the academic 
route, then I'll also need to do a lot of other things that I 
just...” She shook her head. 


“Other things?” 


“Yeah. The PR stuff, mostly. Write grants and convince 
people to fund my research. Network, which is a special kind 
of hell. Public speaking, or even one-on-one situations where I 
have to impress people. That’s the worst, actually. I hate it so 
much—my head explodes and I freeze and everyone is looking 
at me ready to judge me and my tongue paralyzes and I start 
wishing that I was dead and then that the world was dead and 
—” She noticed his smile and gave him a rueful look. “You 
get the gist.” 


“There are things you can do about that, if you want. It just 
takes practice. Making sure your thoughts are organized. Stuff 
like that.” 


“I know. And I try to do that—I did it before my meeting 
with Tom. And I still stammered like an idiot when he asked 
me a simple question.” And then you helped me, ordered my 
thoughts, and saved my ass, without even meaning to. “I don’t 
know. Maybe my brain is broken.” 


He shook his head. “You did great during that meeting with 
Tom, especially considering that you were forced to have your 
fake boyfriend sit next to you.” She didn’t point out that his 
presence had actually made things better. “Tom certainly 
seemed impressed, which is no small feat. And if anyone 
screwed up, it was definitely him. I’m sorry he did that, by the 


29: 


way. 
“Did what?” 
“Force you to talk about your personal life.” 


“Oh.” Olive looked away, toward the blue glow of the 
vending machine. “It’s okay. It’s been a while.” She was 
surprised to hear herself continue. To feel herself wanting to 
continue. “Since high school, really.” 


“That’s .. . young.” There was something about his tone, 
maybe the evenness, maybe the lack of overt sympathy, that 
she found reassuring. 


“I was fifteen. One day my mom and I were there, just . . . I 
don’t even know. Kayaking. Thinking about getting a cat. 
Arguing over the way I’d pile stuff on top of the trash can 
when it was overflowing and I didn’t want to take it out. And 
next thing I knew she had her diagnosis, and three weeks later 
she’d already—” She couldn’t say it. Her lips, her vocal folds, 
her heart, they just wouldn’t form the words. So she 
swallowed them. “The child welfare system couldn’t figure 
out where to send me until I became of age.” 


“Your dad?” 


She shook her head. “Never in the picture. He’s an asshole, 
according to my mom.” She laughed softly. “The never-takes- 
out-the-trash gene clearly came from his side of the family. 
And my grandparents had died when I was a kid, because 
apparently that’s what people around me do.” She tried to say 
it jokingly, she really tried. To not sound bitter. She thought 
she even succeeded. “I was just . . . alone.” 


“What did you do?” 


“Foster home until sixteen, then I emancipated.” She 
shrugged, hoping to brush off the memory. “If only they’d 
caught it earlier, even just by a few months—maybe she’d be 
here. Maybe surgery and chemo would have actually done 
something. And 1... I was always good at science stuff, so I 
thought that the least I could do was...” 


Adam dug into his pockets for a few moments and held out 
a crumpled paper napkin. Olive stared at it, confused, until she 
realized that her cheeks had somehow grown wet. 


Oh. 
“Adam, did you just offer me a used tissue?” 
“I... maybe.” He pressed his lips together. “I panicked.” 


She chuckled wetly, accepting his gross tissue and using it 
to blow her nose. They’d kissed twice, after all. Why not share 
a bit of snot? “I’m sorry. I’m usually not like this.” 


“Like what?” 
“Weepy. I... I shouldn’t talk about this.” 
“Why?” 


“Because.” It was hard to explain, the mix of pain and 
affection that always resurfaced when she talked about her 
mother. It was the reason she almost never did it, and the 
reason she hated cancer so much. Not only had it robbed her of 


the person she loved the most, but it had also turned the 
happiest memories of her life into something bittersweet. “It 
makes me weepy.” 


He smiled. “Olive, you can talk about it. And you should 
let yourself be weepy.” 


She had a sense that he really meant it. That she could have 
talked about her mom for however long she liked, and he 
would have listened intently to every second of it. She wasn’t 
sure she was ready for it, though. So she shrugged, changing 
the topic. “Anyway, now here I am. Loving lab work and 
barely dealing with the rest—abstracts, conferences, 
networking. Teaching. Rejected grants.” Olive gestured in 
Adam’s direction. “Failed dissertation proposals.” 


“Is your lab mate still giving you a hard time?” 


Olive waved her hand dismissively. “I’m not his favorite 
person, but it’s fine. He’ll get over it.” She bit into her lip. 
“Pm sorry about the other night. I was rude. You have every 
right to be mad.” 


Adam shook his head. “It’s okay. I understand where you 
were coming from.” 


“I do get what you’re saying. About not wanting to form a 
new generation of crappy millennial scientists.” 


“I don’t believe I’ve ever used the expression ‘crappy 
millennial scientists.’ ” 


“But FYI, I still think that you don’t need to be that harsh 
when you give feedback. We get the gist of what you’re 
saying, even if you give criticism more nicely.” 


He looked at her for a long time. Then he nodded, once. 
“Noted.” 


“Are you going to be less harsh, then?” 


“Unlikely.” 


She sighed. “You know, when I have no more friends and 
everyone hates me because of this fake-dating thing, P1 be 
super lonely and you are going to have to hang out with me 
every day. Pll annoy you all the time. Is it really worth being 
mean to every grad in the program?” 


“Absolutely.” 


She sighed again, this time with a smile, and let the side of 
her head rest on his shoulder. It might have been a bit forward, 
but it felt natural—maybe because they seemed to have a 
knack for getting themselves in situations that required PDA 
of some sort, maybe because of everything they’d been talking 
about, maybe because of the hour of the night. Adam . . . well, 
he didn’t act as if he minded. He was just there, quiet, relaxed, 
warm and solid through the cotton of his black shirt under her 
temple. It felt like a long time before he broke the silence. 


“I’m not sorry for asking Greg to revise his proposal. But I 
am sorry that I created a situation that led him to take it out on 
you. That as long as this continues, it might happen again.” 


“Well, I am sorry about the texts I sent,” she said again. 
“And you’re fine. Even if you’re antagonistic and 
unapproachable.” 


“Good to hear.” 


“I should go back to the lab.” She sat up, one hand coming 
to massage the base of her neck. “My disastrous blotting is not 
going to fix itself.” 


Adam blinked, and there was a gleam in his eyes, as if he 
hadn’t thought she’d leave so soon. As if he’d have liked for 
her to stay. “Why disastrous?” 


She groaned. “It’s just . . .” She reached for her phone and 
tapped on the home button, pulling up a picture of her last 
Western blot. “See?” She pointed at the target protein. “This— 
it shouldn’t.. .” 


He nodded, thoughtful. “You’re sure the starting sample 
was good? And the gel?” 


“Yep, not runny, or dried out.” 
“Tt looks like the antibody might be the problem.” 
She looked up at him. “You think so?” 


“Yep. ld check the dilution and the buffer. If not that, it 
might also be a wonky secondary antibody. Come by my lab if 
it still doesn’t work; you can borrow ours. Same for other 
pieces of equipment or supplies. If there’s anything you need, 
just ask my lab manager.” 


“Oh, wow. Thank you.” She smiled. “Now I’m actually a 
bit sorry that I can’t have you on my dissertation committee. 
Perhaps rumors of your cruelty have been greatly 
exaggerated.” 


His mouth twitched. “Maybe you just pull out the best in 
me?” 
She grinned. “Then maybe I should stick around. Just, you 


know, to save the department from your terrible moods?” 


He glanced at the picture of the failed Western blot in her 
hand. “Well, it doesn’t look like you’re going to graduate 
anytime soon.” 


She half laughed, half gasped. “Oh my God. Did you just 
ey 2 


“Objectively—” 


“This is the rudest, meanest thing—” She was laughing. 
Holding her stomach as she waved her finger at him. 


c6 


based on your blotting—” 


c6 


that anyone could ever say to a Ph.D. student. Ever.” 


“I think I can find meaner things. If I really put myself to 
it.” 


“We’re done.” She wished she weren’t smiling. Then 
maybe he’d take her seriously instead of just looking at her 
with that patient, amused expression. “Seriously. It was nice 
while it lasted.” She made to stand and leave indignantly, but 
he grabbed the sleeve of her shirt and gently tugged at it until 
she was sitting down again, next to him on the narrow couch 
—maybe even a little closer than before. She continued 
glaring, but he regarded her blandly, clearly unperturbed. 


“There’s nothing bad about taking more than five years to 
graduate,” he offered in a conciliatory tone. 


Olive huffed. “You just want me to stay around forever. 
Until you have the biggest, fattest, strongest Title IX case to 
ever exist.” 


“That was my plan all along, in fact. The one and only 
reason I kissed you out of the blue.” 


“Oh, shut up.” She ducked her chin into her chest, biting 
into her lip and hoping he wouldn’t notice her grinning like the 
idiot she was. “Hey, can I ask you something?” 


Adam looked at her expectantly, like he seemed to a lot 
lately, so she continued, her tone softer and quieter. 


“Why are you really doing this?” 
“Doing what?” 


“The fake dating. I understand that you want to look like 
you’re not a flight risk, but . .. Why aren’t you really dating 
someone? I mean, you’re not that bad.” 


“High praise.” 
“No, come on, what I meant was .. . Based on your fake- 
dating behavior, I’m sure that a lot of women . . . well, some 


women would love to real-date you.” She bit into her lip again, 
playing with the hole that was opening up on the knee of her 


jeans. “We’re friends. We weren’t when we started, but we are 
now. You can tell me.” 


“Are we?” 


She nodded. Yes. Yes, we are. Come on. “Well, you did just 
break one of the sacred tenets of academic friendships by 
mentioning my graduation timeline. But I’ll forgive you if you 
tell me if this is really better for you than . . . you know, 
getting a real girlfriend.” 


“Tt is.” 
“Really?” 


“Yes.” He seemed honest. He was honest. Adam was not a 
liar; Olive would bet her life on it. 


“Why, though? Do you enjoy the sunscreen-mediated 
fondling? And the opportunity to donate hundreds of your 
dollars to the campus Starbucks?” 


He smiled faintly. And then he wasn’t smiling anymore. 
Not looking at her, either, but somewhere in the direction of 
the crumpled plastic wrapper that she’d tossed on the table a 
few minutes go. 


He swallowed. She could see his jaw work. 
“Olive.” He took a deep breath. “You should know that—” 
“Oh my God!” 


They both startled, Olive considerably more so than Adam, 
and turned toward the entrance. Jeremy stood there, one hand 
dramatically clutching his sternum. “You guys scared the shit 
out of me. What are you doing sitting in the dark?” 


What are you doing here? Olive thought ungraciously. 
“Just chatting,’ she said. Though it didn’t seem like a good 
descriptor of what was going on. And yet, she couldn’t put her 
finger on why. 


“You scared me,” Jeremy repeated once more. “Are you 
working on your report, 01?” 


“Yeah.” She stole a quick glance at Adam, who was 
motionless and expressionless next to her. “Just taking a quick 
break. I was about to go back, actually.” 


“Oh, cool. Me too.” Jeremy smiled, pointing in the 
direction of his lab. “I need to go isolate a bunch of virgin fruit 
flies. Before they’re not virgins anymore, you know?” He 
wiggled his eyebrows, and Olive had to force out a small, 
unconvincing laugh. She usually enjoyed his sense of humor. 
Usually. Now she just wished . . . She wasn’t sure what she 
wished. “You coming with, 01?” 


No, I’m fine right here, actually. “Sure.” Reluctantly, she 
stood. Adam did the same, gathering their wrappers and his 
empty bottle and sorting them in the recycling bins. 


“Have a good night, Dr. Carlsen,” Jeremy said from the 
entrance. Adam just nodded at him, a touch curtly. The set of 
his eyes was yet again impossible to decipher. 


I guess that’s it, then, she thought. Where the weight in her 
chest had come from, she had no clue. She was probably just 
tired. Had eaten too much, or not enough. 


“See you, Adam. Right?” she murmured before he could 
head for the entrance and leave the room. Her voice was 
pitched low enough that Jeremy couldn’t possibly have heard 
her. Maybe Adam hadn’t, either. Except that he paused for a 
moment. And then, when he walked past her, she had the 
impression of knuckles brushing against the back of her hand. 


“Good night, Olive.” 


Chapter hine 


ef HYPOTHESIS: The more I mention an attachment in an email, 
the less likely | will be to actually include said attachment. 


SATURDAY, 6:34 p.m. 

FROM: Olive-Smith@stanford.edu 

TO: Tom-Benton@harvard.edu 

SUBJECT: Re: Report on Pancreatic Cancer Study 
Hi Tom, 


Here is the report you asked for, with a detailed description of what 
| have done so far, as well as my thoughts on future directions and 
the resources | will need to expand. l'm excited to hear your 
thoughts on my work! 


Sincerely, 


Olive 


SATURDAY, 6:35 p.m. 

FROM: Olive-Smith@stanford.edu 

TO: Tom-Benton@harvard.edu 

SUBJECT: Re: Report on Pancreatic Cancer Study 
Hi Tom, 

Oops, forgot the attachment. 

Sincerely, 


Olive 


Today, 3:20 p.m. 

FROM: Tom-Benton@harvard.edu 

TO: Olive-Smith@stanford.edu 

SUBJECT: Re: Report on Pancreatic Cancer Study 
Olive, 


Done reading the report. Do you think you could come over to 
Adam's to chat about it? Maybe tomorrow morning (Tue) at nine? 
Adam and | will be leaving for Boston on Wed afternoon. 


TB 


Olive’s heart beat faster—whether at the idea of being in 
Adam’s home or at the thought of getting her answer from 
Tom, she wasn’t sure. She immediately texted Adam. 


Olive: Tom just invited me to your place to talk about the report | 
sent him. Would it be okay if | came over? 


Adam: Of course. When? 
Olive: Tomorrow at 9 a.m. Will you be home? 


Adam: Probably. There are no bike lanes to my house. Do you need 
a ride? | can pick you up. 

She thought about it for a few moments and decided that 
she liked the idea a little too much. 


Olive: My roommate can drive me, but thanks for offering. 


MALCOLM DROPPED HER off in front of a beautiful Spanish 
colonial house with stucco walls and arched windows and 
refused to back out of the driveway until Olive agreed to slide 
a can of pepper spray in her backpack. She walked over the 
brick-tile path and up to the entrance, marveling at the green 
of the yard and at the cozy atmosphere of the porch. She was 
about to ring the doorbell when she heard her name. 


Adam was behind her, bathed in sweat and clearly just 
back from his morning run. He was wearing sunglasses, 
shorts, and a Princeton Undergrad Mathletes T-shirt that stuck 
to his chest. Out of the ensemble, the only nonblack items 
were the AirPods in his ears, peeking through the damp waves 
of his hair. She felt her cheeks curve into a smile, trying to 
imagine what he was listening to. Probably Coil, or Kraftwerk. 


The Velvet Underground. A TED Talk on water-efficient 
landscaping. Whale noises. 


She would have given a huge chunk of her salary in 
exchange for five minutes alone with his phone, just to mess 
with his playlist. Add Taylor Swift, Beyoncé, maybe some 
Ariana. Broaden his horizons. She couldn’t see his eyes behind 
the dark lenses, but she didn’t need to. His mouth had curved 
as soon as he’d noticed her, his smile slight but definitely 
there. 


“You okay?” he asked. 


Olive realized that she’d been staring. “Um, yeah. Sorry. 
You?” 


He nodded. “Did you find the house all right?” 
“Yes. I was just about to knock.” 


“No need.” He passed her and opened the door for her, 
waiting until she’d stepped inside to close it after them. She 
caught a whiff of his scent—sweat and soap and something 
dark and good—and wondered anew at how familiar it had 
become to her. ““Tom’s probably this way.” 


Adam’s place was light, spacious, and simply furnished. 
“No taxidermied animals?” she asked under her breath. 


He was clearly about to flip her off when they found Tom 
in the kitchen, typing on his laptop. He looked up at her and 
grinned—which, she hoped, was a good sign. 


“Thanks for coming, Olive. I wasn’t sure I’d have time to 
go to campus before leaving. Sit down, please.” Adam 
disappeared from the room, probably to go shower, and Olive 
felt her heart pick up. Tom had made his decision. Her destiny 
was going to be defined by the next few minutes. 


“Can you clarify a couple of things for me?” he asked, 
turning his laptop toward her and pointing at one of the figures 


she’d sent. “To make sure I understand your protocols 
correctly.” 


When Adam came back twenty minutes later, hair damp 
and wearing one of his ten million black Henleys that were all 
a tiny bit different and yet still managed to fit him in the most 
irritatingly perfect way, she was just wrapping up an 
explanation of her RNA analyses. Tom was taking notes on his 
laptop. 


“Whenever you guys are done, I can give you a ride back 
to campus, Olive,” Adam offered. “I need to drive in, 


anyway.” 
“We’re done,” Tom said, still typing. “She’s all yours.” 


Oh. Olive nodded and gingerly stood up. Tom hadn’t given 
her an answer yet. He’d asked lots of interesting, smart 
questions about her project, but he hadn’t told her whether he 
wanted to work with her next year. Did it mean that the answer 
was a no, but he’d rather not communicate it to Olive in her 
“boyfriend’s” home? What if he’d never really thought that her 
work was worth funding? What if he’d just been faking it 
because Adam was his friend? Adam had said that Tom wasn’t 
like that, but what if he’d been wrong and now— 


“You ready to go?” Adam asked. She grabbed her 
backpack, trying to collect herself. She was fine. This was 
fine. She could cry about this later. 


“Sure.” She rocked once on her heels, giving Tom one last 
look. Sadly, he seemed taken with his laptop. “Bye, Tom. It 
was nice to meet you. Have a safe trip home.” 


“Likewise,” he said, not even glancing at her. “I had lots of 
interesting conversations.” 


“Yeah.” It must have been the section on genome-based 
prognostics, she thought, following Adam out of the room. 
She’d suspected it was too weak, but she’d been stupid and 


she’d sent the report anyway. Stupid, stupid, stupid. She 
should have beefed it up. The most important thing now was 
to avoid crying until she was— 


“And, Olive,” Tom added. 


She paused under the doorframe and looked back at him. 
“Yes?” 


“PI see you next year at Harvard, right?” His gaze finally 
slid up to meet hers. “I have the perfect bench set aside for 


99 


you. 


Her heart detonated. It absolutely exploded with joy in her 
chest, and Olive felt a violent wave of happiness, pride, and 
relief all wash over her. It could have easily knocked her to the 
floor, but by some miracle of biology she managed to stay 
upright and smile at Tom. 


“I can’t wait,” she said, voice thick with happy tears. 
“Thank you so much.” 


He gave her a wink and one last smile, kind and 
encouraging. Olive barely managed to wait until she was 
outside to fist-pump, then jump around a few times, then fist- 
pump again. 


“You all done?” Adam asked. 


She turned around, remembering that she wasn’t alone. His 
arms were folded on his chest, fingers drumming against his 
biceps. There was an indulgent expression in his eyes, and— 
she should have been embarrassed, but she just couldn’t help 
it. Olive threw herself at him and hugged his torso as tight as 
she could. She closed her eyes when, after a few seconds of 
hesitation, he wrapped his arms around her. 


“Congratulations,” he whispered softly against her hair. 
Just like that Olive was on the verge of tears all over again. 


Once they were in Adam’s car—a Prius, to exactly no one’s 
surprise—and driving to campus, she felt so happy she 
couldn’t possibly be quiet. 


“He’ll take me. He said he’ ll take me.” 


“He’d be an idiot not to.” Adam was smiling softly. “I 
knew he would.” 


“Had he told you?” Her eyes widened. “You knew, and you 
didn’t even tell me—” 


“He hadn’t. We haven’t discussed you.” 


“Oh?” She tilted her head, turning around in the car seat to 
better look at him. “Why?” 


“Unspoken agreement. It might be a conflict of interest.” 


“Right.” Sure. It made sense. Close friend and girlfriend. 
Fake girlfriend, actually. 


“Can I ask you something?” 
She nodded. 


“There are lots of cancer labs in the US. Why did you 
choose Tom’s?” 


“Well, I sort of didn’t. I emailed several people—two of 
whom are at UCSF, which is much closer than Boston. But 
Tom was the only one who answered.” She leaned her head 
against the seat. It occurred to her for the first time that she 
was going to have to leave her life for an entire year. Her 
apartment with Malcolm, her nights spent with Anh. Adam, 
even. She immediately pushed the thought away, not ready to 
entertain it. “Why do professors never answer students’ 
emails, by the way?” 


“Because we get approximately two hundred a day, and 
most of them are iterations of ‘why do I have a C minus?’” He 
was quiet for a moment. “My advice for the future is to have 
your adviser reach out, instead of doing it yourself.” 


She nodded and stored away the information. “I’m glad 
Harvard worked out, though. It’s going to be amazing. Tom is 
such a big name, and the amount of work I can do in his lab is 
limitless. P’ l| be running studies twenty-four seven, and if the 
results are what I think they’ll be, Pll be able to publish in 
high-impact journals and probably get a clinical trial started in 
just a few years.” She felt high on the prospect. “Hey, you and 
I now have a collaborator in common, on top of being 
excellent fake-dating partners!” A thought occurred to her. 
“What is your and Tom’s big grant about, anyway?” 


“Cell-based models.” 
“Off-lattice?” 

He nodded. 

“Wow. That’s cool stuff.” 


“It’s the most interesting project I’m working on, for sure. 
Got the grant at the right moment, too.” 


“What do you mean?” 


He was silent for a beat while he switched lanes. “It’s 
different from my other grants—mostly genetic stuff. Which is 
interesting, don’t get me wrong, but after ten years researching 
the same exact thing, I was in a rut.” 


“You mean... bored?” 
“To death. I briefly considered going into industry.” 


Olive gasped. Switching from academia to industry was 
considered the ultimate betrayal. 


“Don’t worry.” Adam smiled. “Tom saved the day. When I 
told him I wasn’t enjoying research anymore, we brainstormed 
some new directions, found something we were both 
enthusiastic about, and wrote the grant.” 


Olive felt a sudden surge of gratitude toward Tom. Not 
only was he going to rescue her project, but he was the reason 


Adam was still around. The reason she’d gotten the 
opportunity to know him. “It must be nice to be excited about 
work again.” 


“It is. Academia takes a lot from you and gives back very 
little. It’s hard to stick around without a good reason to do so.” 


She nodded absentmindedly, thinking that the words 
sounded familiar. Not just the content, but the delivery, too. 
Not surprising, though: it was exactly what The Guy in the 
bathroom had told her all those years ago. Academia’ a lot of 
bucks for very little bang. What matters is whether your reason 
to be in academia is good enough. 


Suddenly, something clicked in her brain. 


The deep voice. The blurry dark hair. The crisp, precise 
way of talking. Could The Guy in the bathroom and Adam 
be... 


No. Impossible. The Guy was a student—though, had he 
explicitly said so? No. No, what he’d said was This is my lab s 
bathroom and that he’d been there for six years, and he hadn’t 
answered when she’d asked about his dissertation timeline, 
and— 


Impossible. Improbable. Inconceivable. 
Just like everything else about Adam and Olive. 


Oh God. What if they’d really met years ago? He probably 
didn’t remember, anyway. Surely. Olive had been no one. Still 
was no one. She thought about asking him, but why? He had 
no idea that a five-minute conversation with him had been the 
exact push Olive needed. That she’d thought about him for 
years. 


Olive remembered her last words to him—Maybe I'll see 
you next year—and oh, if only she’d known. She felt a surge 
of something warm and soft in the squishy part of herself that 


she guarded most carefully. She looked at Adam, and it 
swelled even larger, even stronger, even hotter. 


You, she thought. You. You are just the most— 
The worst— 

The best— 

Olive laughed, shaking her head. 

“What?” he asked, puzzled. 


“Nothing.” She grinned at him. “Nothing. Hey, you know 
what? You and I should go get coffee. To celebrate.” 


“Celebrate what?” 


“Everything! Your grant. My year at Harvard. How great 
our fake dating is going.” 


It was probably unfair of her to ask, since they were not 
due for fake-dating coffee until tomorrow. But the previous 
Wednesday had lasted just a few short minutes, and since 
Friday night, there had been about thirty times when Olive had 
to forcibly remove her phone from her hands to avoid texting 
him things he couldn’t possibly care about. He didn’t need to 
know that he was right and the problem with her Western blot 
had been the antibody. There was no way he’d have answered 
her if on Saturday at 10:00 p.m., when she’d been dying to 
know if he was in his office, she had sent that Hey, what are 
you up to? message that she’d written and deleted twice. And 
she was glad she’d ended up chickening out of forwarding him 
that Onion article on sun-safety tips. 


It was probably unfair of her to ask, and yet today was a 
momentous day, and she found herself wanting to celebrate. 
With him. 


He bit the inside of his cheek, looking pensive. “Would it 
be actual coffee, or chamomile tea?” 


“Depends. Will you go all moody on me?” 


“I will if you get pumpkin stuff.” 


She rolled her eyes. “You have no taste.” Her phone pinged 
with a reminder. “Oh, we should go to Fluchella, too. Before 
coffee.” 


A vertical line appeared between his brows. “I’m afraid to 
ask what that is.” 


“Fluchella,”’ Olive repeated, though it was clearly not 
helpful, judging from how the line bisecting his forehead 
deepened. “Mass flu vaccination for faculty, staff, and 
students. At no charge.” 


Adam made a face. “It’s called Fluchella?”’ 
“Yep, like the festival. Coachella?” 
Adam was clearly not familiar. 


“Don’t you get university emails about this stuff? There’ve 
been at least five.” 


“I have a great spam filter.” 


Olive frowned. “Does it block Stanford emails, too? 
Because it shouldn’t. It might end up filtering out important 
messages from admin and students and—” 


Adam arched one eyebrow. 
“Oh. Right.” 


Dont laugh. Dont laugh. He doesnt need to know how 
much he makes you laugh. 


“Well, we should go get our flu shots.” 
“Tm good.” 

“You got one already?” 

“No.” 


“I’m pretty sure it’s mandatory for everyone.” 


The set of Adam’s shoulders clearly broadcasted that he 
was, in fact, not everyone. “I never get sick.” 


“I doubt it.” 

“You shouldn’t.” 

“Hey, the flu is more serious than you might think.” 
“It’s not that bad.” 

“It is, especially for people like you.” 

“Like me?” 

“You know .. . people of a certain age.” 


His mouth twitched as he turned into the campus parking 
lot. “You smart-ass.” 


“Come on.” She leaned forward, poking his biceps with her 
index finger. They had touched so much at this point. In 
public, and alone, and a mixture of the two. It didn’t feel 
weird. It felt good and natural, like when Olive was with Anh, 
or Malcolm. “Let’s go together.” 


He didn’t budge, parallel parking in a spot that would have 
taken Olive about two hours of maneuvering to fit into. “I 
don’t have time.” 


“You just agreed to go get coffee. You must have some 
time.” 


He finished parking in less than a minute and pressed his 
lips together. Not answering her. 


“Why don’t you want to get the shot?” She studied him 
suspiciously. “Are you some kind of anti-vaxxer?” 


Oh, if looks could kill. 
“Okay.” She furrowed her brow. “Then why?” 


“It’s not worth the hassle.” Was he fidgeting a little? Was 
he biting the inside of his lip? 


“It literally takes ten minutes.” She reached for him, 
tugging at the sleeve of his shirt. “You get there, they scan 
your university badge. They give you the shot.” She felt his 
muscles tense under her fingertips as she said the last word. 
“Easy peasy, and the best part is, you don’t get the flu for a 
whole year. Totally— Oh.” Olive covered her mouth with her 
hand. 


“What?” 

“Oh my God.” 

“What?” 

“Are you— Oh, Adam.” 
“What?” 


“Are you afraid of needles?” 


He went still. Completely immobile. He wasn’t breathing 
anymore. “I’m not afraid of needles.” 


“It’s okay,” she said, making her tone as reassuring as 
possible. 


“I know, since I’m not—” 

“This is a safe space for you and your fear of needles.” 
“There is no fear of—” 

“I get it, needles are scary.” 

“It’s not—” 

“You are allowed to be scared.” 


“I am not,” he told her, a little too forcefully, and then 
turned away, clearing his throat and scratching the side of his 
neck. 


Olive pressed her lips together, and then said, “Well, Z used 
to be scared.” 


He looked at her, curious, so she continued. 


“As a child. My . . .” She had to clear her throat. “My 
mother would have to hold me in a bear hug every time I 
needed a shot, or I’d thrash around too much. And she had to 
bribe me with ice cream, but the problem was that I wanted it 
immediately after my shot.” She laughed. “So she’d buy an ice 
cream sandwich before the doctor’s appointment, and by the 
time I was ready to eat, it’d be all melted in her purse and 
make a huge mess and...” 


Dammit. She was weepy, again. In front of Adam, again. 
“She sounds lovely,” Adam said. 
“She was.” 


“And to be clear, I’m not afraid of needles,” he repeated. 
This time, his tone was warm and kind. “They just feel... 
disgusting.” 


She sniffled and looked up at him. The temptation to hug 
him was almost irresistible. But she’d already done that today, 
so she made do with patting him on the arm. “Aww.” 


He pinned her with a withering look. “Don’t aww me.” 


Adorable. He was adorable. “No, really, they are gross. 
Stuff pokes at you, and then you bleed. The feeling of it— 
yikes.” 


She got out of the car and waited for him to do the same. 
When he joined her, she smiled at him reassuringly. 


“I get it.” 

“You do?” He didn’t seem convinced. 
“Yep. They’re horrible.” 

He was still a little distrustful. “They are.” 


“And scary.” She wrapped her hand around his elbow and 
began to pull him in the direction of the Fluchella tent. “Still, 


you need to get over it. For science. I’m taking you to get a flu 
shot.” 


a es 
“This is nonnegotiable. P11 hold your hand, during.” 


“I don’t need you to hold my hand. Since I’m not going.” 
Except that he was going. He could have planted his feet and 
stood his ground, and he would have turned into an immovable 
object; Olive would have had no way of dragging him 
anywhere. And yet. 


She let her hand slide down to his wrist and looked up at 
him. “You so are.” 


“Please.” He looked pained. “Don’t make me.” 


He was so adorable. “It’s for your own good. And for the 
good of the elderly people who might come in any proximity 
to you. Even more elderly than you, that is.” 


He sighed, defeated. “Olive.” 


“Come on. Maybe we’re lucky and the chair will spot us. 
And I’Il buy you an ice cream sandwich afterward.” 


“Will I be paying for this ice cream sandwich?” He 
sounded resigned now. 


“Likely. Actually, scratch that, you probably don’t like ice 
cream anyway, because you don’t enjoy anything that’s good 
in life.” She kept on walking, pensively chewing on her lower 
lip. “Maybe the cafeteria has some raw broccoli?” 


“I don’t deserve this verbal abuse on top of the flu shot.” 


She beamed. “You’re such a trooper. Even though the big 
bad needle is out to get you.” 


“You are a smart-ass.” And yet, he didn’t resist when she 
continued to pull him behind her. 


It was ten on an early-September morning, the sun already 
shining too bright and too hot through the cotton of Olive’s 
shirt, the sweetgum leaves still a deep green and showing no 
sign of turning. It felt different from the past few years, this 
summer that didn’t seem to want to end, that was stretched full 
and ripe past the beginning of the semester. Undergrads must 
have been either dozing off in their midmorning classes or still 
asleep in bed, because for once that harried air of chaos that 
always coated the Stanford campus was missing. And Olive— 
Olive had a lab for next year. Everything she’d worked toward 
since fifteen, it was finally going to happen. 


Life didn’t get much better than this. 


She smiled, smelling the flower beds and humming a tune 
under her breath as she and Adam walked quietly, side by side. 
As they made their way across the quad, her fingers slid down 
from his wrist and closed around his palm. 


Chapter Tew 


ef HYPOTHESIS: IfI fall in love, things will invariably end poorly. 


The knockout mouse had been hanging from a wire for a 
length of time that should have been impossible, considering 
how it had been genetically modified. Olive frowned at it and 
pressed her lips together. It was missing crucial DNA. All the 
hanging-from-a-wire proteins had been erased. There was no 
way it could hold on for this long. It was the whole point of 
knocking out its stupid genes— 


Her phone lit up, and the corner of her eye darted to its 
screen. She was able to read the name of the sender (Adam) 
but not the content of the message. It was 8:42 on Wednesday, 
which immediately had her worried that he might want to 
cancel their fake date. Maybe he thought that because he’d let 
Olive pick out an ice cream sandwich for him yesterday after 
Fluchella (which she may or may not have ended up eating 
herself) they didn’t need to meet today. Maybe she shouldn’t 
have forced him to sit on a bench with her and recount the 
marathons they had run, and possibly she had come off as 
annoying when she’d stolen his phone, downloaded her 
favorite running app, and then friended herself on it. He had 
seemed to be enjoying himself, but maybe he hadn’t been. 


Olive glanced at her gloved hands, and then back at her 
mouse, who was still holding on to the wire. 


“Dude, stop trying so hard.” She kneeled until she was at 
eye level with the cage. The mouse kicked around with its 
little legs, its tail flopping back and forth. “You’re supposed to 
be bad at this. And I’m supposed to write a dissertation about 


how bad you are. And then you get a chunk of cheese, and I 
get a real job that pays real money and the joy of saying ‘I’m 
not that kind of doctor’ when someone is having a stroke on 
my airplane.” 


The mouse squeaked and let go of the wire, flopping on the 
floor of the testing cage with a thud. 


“That'll do it.” She quickly got rid of her gloves and 
unlocked her phone with her thumb. 


Adam: My arm hurts. 


She initially thought that he was giving her a reason why 
they couldn’t meet up. Then she remembered waking up and 
rubbing her own achy arm. 


Olive: From the flu shot? 
Adam: It’s really painful. 


She giggled. She truly had not thought she was the type to, 
but here she was, covering her mouth with her hand and... 
yes, giggling like a fool in the middle of the lab. Her mouse 
was staring up at her, its tiny red eyes a mix of judgment and 
surprise. Olive hastily turned away and looked back at her 
phone. 


Olive: Oh, Adam. I’m so sorry. 
Olive: Should | come over and kiss it better? 
Adam: You never said it would hurt so bad. 


Olive: As someone once told me, it’s not my job to work on your 
emotion regulation skills. 

Adam’s answer was one single emoji (a yellow hand with a 
raised middle finger), and Olive’s cheeks pulled with how hard 
she was grinning. She was about to reply with a kiss emoji 
when a voice interrupted her. 


“Gross.” 


She looked up from her phone. Anh stood in the lab’s 
entrance, sticking out her tongue. 


“Hey. What are you doing here?” 
“Borrowing gloves. And being grossed out.” 
Olive frowned. “Why?” 


“We’re out of the small size.” Anh stepped inside, rolling 
her eyes. “Honestly, they never buy enough because I’m the 
only woman in the lab, but it’s not like I don’t go through 
gloves as fast as—” 


“No, why are you grossed out?” 


Anh made a face and plucked two purple gloves from 
Olive’s stash. “Because of how in love you are with Carlsen. Is 
it okay if I take a few pairs?” 


“What are you—” Olive blinked at her, still clutching her 
phone. Was Anh going crazy? “I’m not in love with him.” 


“Uh-huh, sure.” Anh finished stuffing her pockets with 
gloves and then looked up, finally noticing Olive’s distressed 
expression. Her eyes widened. “Hey, I was kidding! You’re 
not gross. I probably look the same when I’m texting Jeremy. 
And it’s actually very sweet, how gone you are for him—” 


“But I’m not. Gone.” Olive was starting to panic. “I don’t 
—It’s just—” 


Anh pressed her lips together, as if biting back a smile. 
“Okay. If you say so.” 


“No, I’m serious. We’re just—” 


“Dude, it’s okay.” Anh’s tone was reassuring and a little 
emotional. “It’s just, you’re so amazing. And special. And 
honestly, my favorite person in the whole world. But 
sometimes I get worried that no one but Malcolm and me will 
ever get to experience how incredible you are. Well, until now. 
Now I’m not worried anymore, because I’ve seen you and 


Adam together, at the picnic. And in the parking lot. And... 
every other time, really. You’re both crazy in love, and over 
the moon about it. It’s cute! Except that first night,” she added, 
pensive. “I maintain that was pretty awkward.” 


Olive stiffened. “Anh, it’s not like that. We’re just... . 
dating. Casually. Hanging out. Getting to know each other. 
We’re not...” 


“Okay, sure. If you say so.” Anh shrugged, clearly not 
believing a word of what Olive was saying. “Hey, I gotta go 
back to my bacterial culture. PII come bug you when I’m on 
break, okay?” 


Olive nodded slowly, watching her friend’s back as she 
headed for the door. Olive’s heart skipped a beat when Anh 
paused and turned around, her expression suddenly serious. 


“Ol. I just want you to know that .. . I was very worried 
about you getting hurt from my dating Jeremy. But now I’m 
not anymore. Because I know what you really look like when 
you... Well.” Anh gave her a sheepish grin. “I won’t say it, if 
you don’t want me to.” 


She left with a wave of her hand, and Olive stood frozen, 
watching the doorframe long past the moment Anh had 
disappeared. Then she lowered her gaze to the floor, slumped 
on the stool behind her, and thought one single thing: 


Shit. 


IT WASN'T THE end of the world. These things happened. Even 
the best of people developed crushes—Anh had said love, oh 
God, she had said /ove—on the person they were fake-dating. 
It didn’t mean anything. 


Except that: Fuck. Fuck, fuck, fuck. 


Olive locked the door of her office behind her and plopped 
herself into a chair, hoping today wouldn’t be the one time in 
the semester that her office mates decided to show up before 
10:00 a.m. 


It was all her fault. Her stupid doing. She had known, she 
had known, that she’d begun to find Adam attractive. She had 
known almost from the very beginning, and then she’d started 
talking with him, she’d started getting to know him even 
though it was never part of the plan, and—damn him to hell 
for being so different from what she’d expected. For making 
her want to be with him more and more. Damn him. It had 
been there, staring at Olive for the past few days, and she 
hadn’t noticed. Because she was an idiot. 


She stood abruptly and dug into her pocket for her phone, 
pulling up Malcolm’s contact. 


Olive: We have to meet. 


Bless Malcolm, because it took him fewer than five 
seconds to answer. 


Malcolm: Lunch? I'm about to dig into the neuromuscular junction 
of a juvenile rat. 


Olive: | need to talk to you NOW. 
Olive: Please. 


Malcolm: Starbucks. In 10. 


“| TOLD YOU so.” 


Olive didn’t bother lifting her forehead from the table. 
“You didn’t.” 


“Well, maybe I didn’t say, “Hey, don’t do this fake-dating 
shit because you’re going to fall for Carlsen,’ but I did say that 


the whole idea was idiotic and a car wreck waiting to happen 
—which I believe encompasses the current situation.” 


Malcolm was sitting across from her, by the window of the 
crowded coffee shop. Around them students chatted, laughed, 
ordered drinks—rudely unaware of the sudden maelstrom in 
Olive’s life. She pushed up from the cold surface of the table 
and pressed her palms into her eyes, not quite ready to open 
them yet. She might never be ready again. “How could this 
happen? I am not like this. This is not me. How could I—and 
Adam Carlsen, of everyone. Who is into Adam Carlsen?” 


Malcolm snorted. “Everyone, Ol. He’s a tall, broody, sullen 
hunk with a genius IQ. Everyone likes tall, broody, sullen 
hunks with genius IQs.” 


“I don’t!” 
“Clearly you do.” 


She squeezed her eyes shut and whimpered. “He’s really 
not that sullen.” 


“Oh, he is. Just, you don’t notice, because you’re halfway 
gone for him.” 


99 


“I am not— 
“Shit.” 


She smacked her forehead. Repeatedly. 


He leaned forward and grabbed her hand, his skin dark and 
warm against hers. “Hey,” he told her, voice pitched to a 
comforting tone. “Settle down. We’ll figure it out.” He even 
tacked on a smile. Olive loved him so much in that moment, 
even with all the I told you sos. “First of all, how bad is it?” 


“I don’t know. Is there a scale?” 
“Well, there is liking, and there is liking.” 


She shook her head, feeling utterly lost. “I just like him. I 
want to spend time with him.” 


“Okay, that doesn’t mean anything. You also want to spend 
time with me.” 


She grimaced, feeling herself blush scarlet. “Not quite like 
that.” 


Malcolm was quiet for a beat. “I see.” He knew how big of 
a deal this was for Olive. They’d talked about it multiple times 
—how rare it was for her to experience attraction, especially 
sexual attraction. If there was something wrong with her. If her 
past had stunted her in some way. 


“God.” She just wanted to retreat inside her hoodie like a 
turtle until it all went away. Go run a race. Start writing her 
dissertation proposal. Anything but deal with this. “It was 
there, and I didn’t figure it out. I just thought he was smart and 
attractive and that he had a nice smile and that we could be 
friends and—” She rubbed her palms into her eye sockets, 
wishing she could go back and erase her life choices. The 
entire past month. “Do you hate me?” 


“Me?” Malcolm sounded surprised. 
“Yes.” 
“No. Why would I hate you?” 


“Because he’s been horrible to you, made you throw out a 
ton of data. It’s just—with me he’s not—” 


“I know. Well,’ he amended, waving his hand, “I don’t 
know know. But I can believe he’s different with you than 
when he was in my damn graduate advisory committee.” 


“You hate him.” 


“Yeah—I hate him. Or . . . I dislike him. But you don’t 
have to dislike him because I do. Though I do reserve the right 
to comment on your abysmal taste in men. Every other day or 
so. But, Ol, I saw you guys at the picnic. He definitely wasn’t 
interacting with you like he does with me. Plus, you know,” he 


added begrudgingly, “he’s not not hot. I can see why you'd hit 
that.” 


“This is not what you said when I first told you about the 
fake dating.” 


“No, but I’m trying to be supportive here. You weren’t in 
love with him at the time.” 


She groaned. “Can we please not use that word? Ever 
again? It seems a little premature.” 


“Sure.” Malcolm brushed nonexistent dust off his button- 
down. “Way to bring a rom-com to life, by the way. So, how 
are you going to break the news?” 


She massaged her temple. “What do you mean?” 


“Well, you have a thing for him, and you two are friendly. 
I’m assuming you’re planning to inform him of your... 
feelings? Can I use the word ‘feelings’?” 


“No.” 


“Whatever.” He rolled his eyes. “You’re going to tell him, 
right?” 


“Of course not.” She snorted out a laugh. “You can’t tell 
the person you’re fake-dating that you’—her brain scanned 
itself for the correct word, didn’t find it, and then stumbled on 
—“like them. It’s just not done. Adam will think I orchestrated 
this. That I was after him all along.” 


“That’s ridiculous. You didn’t even know him at the time.” 


“Maybe I did, though. Do you remember the guy I told you 
about, who helped me decide about grad school? The one I 
met in the bathroom over my interview weekend?” 


Malcolm nodded. 
“He might have been Adam. I think.” 


“You think? You mean you didn’t ask him?” 


“Of course not.” 
“Why ‘of course’?” 


“Because maybe it wasnt him. And if he was, he clearly 
doesn’t remember, or he’d have mentioned it weeks ago.” 


He hadn’t been the one wearing expired contacts, after all. 


Malcolm rolled his eyes. “Listen, Olive,” he said earnestly, 
“I need you to consider something: What if Adam likes you, 
too? What if he wants something more?” 


She laughed. “There is no way.” 
“Why not?” 

“Because.” 

“Because what?” 


“Because he’s him. He’s Adam Carlsen, and I . . .” She 
trailed off. No need to continue. And I’m me. I am nothing 
special. 


Malcolm was quiet for a long moment. “You have no idea, 
do you?” His tone was sad. “You’re great. You’re beautiful, 
and loving. You’re independent, and a genius scientist, and 
selfless, and loyal—hell, Ol, look at this ridiculous mess you 
created just so your friend could date the guy she likes without 
feeling guilty. There’s no way Carlsen hasn’t noticed.” 


“No.” She was resolute. “Don’t get me wrong, I do think he 
likes me, but he thinks of me as a friend. And if I tell him and 
he doesn’t want to...” 


“To what? Doesn’t want to fake-date you anymore? It’s not 
like you have much to lose.” 


Maybe not. Maybe all the talking, and those looks Adam 
gave her, and him shaking his head when she ordered extra 
whipped cream; the way he let himself be teased out of his 
moods; the texts; how he seemed to be so at ease with her, so 


noticeably different from the Adam Carlsen she used to be 
half-scared of—maybe all of that was not much. But she and 
Adam were friends now, and they could remain friends even 
past September twenty-ninth. Olive’s heart sank at the thought 
of giving up the possibility of it. “I do, though.” 


Malcolm sighed, once again enveloping her hand with his. 
“You have it bad, then.” 


She pressed her lips together, blinking rapidly to push back 
the tears. “Maybe I do. I don’t know—I’ve never had it before. 
I’ve never wanted to have it.” 


He smiled reassuringly, even though Olive felt anything but 
reassured. “Listen, I know it’s scary. But this is not necessarily 
a bad thing.” 


One single tear was making its way down Olive’s cheek. 
She hastened to clean it with her sleeve. “It’s the worst.” 


“You’ve finally found someone you’re into. And okay, it’s 
Carlsen, but this could still turn out to be great.” 


“It couldn’t. It can’t.” 


“Ol, I know where you’re coming from. I get it.” 
Malcolm’s hand tightened on hers. “I know it’s scary, being 
vulnerable, but you can allow yourself to care. You can want 
to be with people as more than just friends or casual 
acquaintances.” 


“But I can’t.” 
“I don’t see why not.” 


“Because all the people I’ve cared about are gone,” she 
snapped. 


Somewhere in the coffee shop, the barista called for a 
caramel macchiato. Olive immediately regretted her harsh 
words. 


“Pm sorry. It’s just . . . it’s the way it works. My mom. My 
grandparents. My father—one way or another, everyone is 
gone. If I let myself care, Adam will go, too.” There. She’d put 
it into words, said it out loud, and it sounded all the truer 
because of it. 


Malcolm exhaled. “Oh, Ol.” He was one of the few people 
to whom Olive had opened up about her fears—the constant 
feeling of not belonging, the never-ending suspicions that 
since so much of her life had been spent alone, then it would 
end the same way. That she’d never be worthy of someone 
caring for her. His knowing expression, a combination of 
sorrow and understanding and pity, was unbearable to watch. 
She looked elsewhere—at the laughing students, at the coffee 
cup lids stacked next to the counter, at the stickers on a girl’s 
MacBook—and slid her hand away from under his palm. 


“You should go.” She attempted a smile, but it felt wobbly. 
“Finish your surgeries.” 


He didn’t break eye contact. “J care. Anh cares—Anh 
would have chosen you over Jeremy. And you care, too. We all 
care about one another, and I’m still here. Pm not going 
anywhere.” 


“It’s different.” 
“How?” 


Olive didn’t bother answering and used her sleeve to dry 
her cheek. Adam was different, and what Olive wanted from 
him was different, but she couldn’t—didn’t want to articulate 
it. Not now. “I won’t tell him.” 


“Q? 


“No,” she said, firm. With her tears gone, she felt 
marginally better. Maybe she was not who she had thought, 
but she could fake it. She could pretend, even to herself. “I’m 
not going to tell him. It’s a horrible idea.” 


“Ol.” 


“How would that conversation even work? How would I 
phrase it? What are the right words?” 


“Actually you should probably—” 


“Do I tell him that I’m into him? That I think about him all 
the time? That I have a huge crush on him? That—” 


“Olive. ” 


In the end, what tipped her off was not Malcolm’s words, 
or his panicky expression, or the fact that he was clearly 
looking at a spot somewhere above her shoulders. In the end, 
Anh chose that exact moment to text her, which drew Olive’s 
eyes to the numbers on the screen. 


10:00 a.m. 


It was ten. On a Wednesday morning. And Olive was 
currently sitting in the campus Starbucks, the very same 
Starbucks where she had spent her Wednesday mornings for 
the past few weeks. She whirled around and— 


She wasn’t even surprised to find Adam. Standing behind 
her. Close enough that unless both his eardrums had ruptured 
since the last time they’d talked, he must have heard every 
single word that came out of Olive’s mouth. 


She wished she could expire on the spot. She wished she 
could crawl outside her body and this café, melt in a pool of 
sweat, and seep between the tiles on the floor, just vanish into 
thin air. But all these things were currently beyond her skill 
set, so she fixed a weak smile on her face and looked up at 
Adam. 


Chapter Pleven 


ef HYPOTHESIS: Whenever I lie, things will get worse by a 
factor of 743. 


“Did you . . . did you hear that?” she blurted out. 


Malcolm hurried to clear the table of his stuff, muttering 
tightly, “I was just about to go.” 


Olive barely noticed, busy watching Adam slide the chair 
back to sit across from her. 


Shit. 


“Yes,” he said, bland and even, and Olive felt like she was 
about to disintegrate into a million tiny pieces, here, in this 
exact spot. She wanted him to take it back. Wanted him to say 
“No, heard what?” She wanted to go back to earlier this 
morning and rewind it all, this horrible mess of a day. Not look 
at the texts on her phone, not let Anh walk in on her mooning 
over her fake boyfriend, not pour her heart out to Malcolm in 
the worst possible place. 


Adam couldn’t know. He simply couldn’t. He’d think that 
Olive had kissed him on purpose, that she’d masterminded this 
whole fiasco, that she’d manipulated him into this situation. 
He’d feel compelled to break up with her well before he could 
reap any benefits from their arrangement. And he would hate 
her. 


The prospect was terrifying, so she said the one thing she 
could think of. 


“It wasn’t about you.” 


The le rolled off her tongue like a mudslide: 
unpremeditated, quick, and bound to leave a huge mess 
behind. 


“I know.” He nodded, and . . . he didn’t even look 
surprised. It was as though it had never occurred to him that 
Olive might have been interested in him. It made her want to 
cry—a frequent state on this stupid morning—but instead of 
doing that, she just vomited out another lie. 


“I just... I have a thing. For a guy.” 


He nodded again, this time slowly. His eyes darkened, and 
the corner of his jaw twitched, just for a moment. She blinked, 
and his expression was blank again. “Yeah. I gathered that.” 


“This guy, he’s .. .” She swallowed. What was he? Quick, 
Olive, quick. An immunologist? Icelandic? A giraffe? What 
was he? 


“You don’t have to explain if you don’t want.” Adam’s 
voice seemed slightly offbeat, but also comforting. Tired. 
Olive realized that she was wringing her hands, and instead of 
stopping she simply hid them under the table. 


“I... IPs just that...” 


“It’s okay.” He offered her a reassuring smile, and Olive— 
she couldn’t possibly look at him. Not a second longer. She 
averted her eyes, desperately wishing she had something to 
say. Something to fix this. Right outside the café’s window, a 
group of undergrads were huddling together in front of a 
laptop, laughing at something playing on the screen. A gust of 
wind scattered a stack of notes, and a boy scrambled to 
retrieve them. In the distance, Dr. Rodrigues was walking in 
the direction of Starbucks. 


“This ... our arrangement.” Adam’s voice pulled her back 
inside. To the lies and the table between them; to the gentle, 
soft way he was talking to her. Kind, he’d been so kind. 


Adam. I used to think the worst of you, and now . . . 
“It’s supposed to help both of us. If it stops doing so...” 


“No.” Olive shook her head. “No. I... .” She forced her 
face into a smile. “It’s complicated.” 


“I see.” 


She opened her mouth to say that no, he couldn’t possibly 
see. He couldn’t possibly see anything, because Olive had just 
made all of this up. This clusterfuck of a situation. “I don’t—” 
She wet her lips. “There is no need to stop our arrangement 
early, because I can’t tell him that I like him. Because I—” 


“Dude.” A hand clapped on Adam’s shoulder. “Since when 
are you not in your offi— Oh. I see.” Dr. Rodrigues’s gaze slid 
from Adam to Olive and settled on her. For a second, he just 
stood by the table and took her in, surprised to find her there. 
Then his mouth widened into a slow grin. “Hey, Olive.” 


During Olive’s first year of grad school, Dr. Rodrigues had 
been on her preassigned graduate advisory committee—an 
admittedly odd choice, given his relative lack of relevance to 
her research. And yet, Olive had mostly pleasant memories of 
her interactions with him. When she’d stammered her way 
through her committee meetings, he’d always been the first to 
smile at her, and once he’d even complimented her Star Wars 
T-shirt—and then proceeded to hum the Darth Vader theme 
under his breath every time Dr. Moss would start one of her 
rants against Olive’s methods. 


“Hey, Dr. Rodrigues.” She was positive that her smile was 
not nearly as convincing as it should have been. “How are 
you?” 


He waved a hand. “Pssh. Please, call me Holden. You’re 
not my student anymore.” He patted Adam on the back with 
relish. “And you have the very dubious pleasure of dating my 
oldest, most socially impaired friend.” 


It was all Olive could do not to let her jaw drop. They were 
friends? Charming, devil-may-care Holden Rodrigues and 
surly, taciturn Adam Carlsen were old friends? Was this 
something she was supposed to know? Adam7’s girlfriend 
would have known, right? 


Dr. Rodrigues—Holden? God, Holden. She was never 
going to get used to the fact that professors were real people 
and had first names—turned to Adam, who appeared 
untroubled by having been decreed socially impaired. 


He asked, “You’re leaving for Boston tonight, right?” and 
his speech pattern changed a little—pitched lower and faster, 
more casual. Comfortable. They really were old friends. 


“Yeah. Can you still give Tom and me a ride to the 
airport?” 


“Depends.” 

“On what?” 

“Is Tom going to be gagged and tied up in the trunk?” 
Adam sighed. “Holden.” 


“PII allow him in the back seat, but if he doesn’t keep his 
mouth shut, P11 ditch him on the highway.” 


“Fine. Pl let him know.” 


Holden seemed satisfied. “Anyway, I didn’t mean to 
interrupt.” He patted Adam’s shoulder once more, but he was 
looking at Olive. 


“It’s okay.” 


“Really? Well, then.” His smile broadened and he pulled up 
a chair from a nearby table. Adam closed his eyes, resigned. 


“So, what are we talking about?” 


Why, I was just in the middle of lying my ass off, thank you 
for asking. “Ah . . . nothing much. How do you two .. .” She 


looked between them, clearing her throat. “Sorry, I forgot how 
you and Adam know each other.” 


A thud—Holden kicking Adam under the table. “You little 
shit. You didn’t tell her about our decades-deep history?” 


“Just trying to forget.” 


“You wish.” Holden turned to grin at her. “We grew up 
together.” 


She frowned at Adam. “I thought you grew up in Europe?” 


Holden waved his hand. “He grew up all over the place. 
And so did I, since our parents worked together. Diplomats— 
the worst kind of people. But then our families settled in DC.” 
He leaned forward. “Guess who went to high school, college, 
and grad school together.” 


Olive’s eyes widened, and Holden noticed, at least judging 
by how he kicked Adam again. 


“You really haven’t told her shit. I see you’re still going for 
brooding and mysterious.” He rolled his eyes fondly and 
looked at me again. “Did Adam tell you that he almost didn’t 
graduate high school? He got suspended for punching a guy 
who insisted that the Large Hadron Collider would destroy the 
planet.” 


“Interesting how you’re not mentioning that you got 
suspended alongside me for doing the exact same thing.” 


Holden ignored him. “My parents were out of the country 
on some kind of assignment and briefly forgot that I existed, 
so we spent the week at my place playing Final Fantasy—it 
was glorious. What about when Adam applied to law school? 
He must have told you about that.” 


“I never technically applied to law school.” 


“Lies. All lies. Did he at least tell you that he was my prom 
date? It was phenomenal.” 


Olive looked at Adam, expecting him to deny that, too. But 
Adam just half smiled, met Holden’s eyes, and said, “It was 
quite phenomenal.” 


“Picture this, Olive. Early two thousands. Preppy, 
ridiculously expensive all-male DC school. Two gay students 
in grade twelve. Well, two of us that were out, anyway. Richie 
Muller and I date for the entirety of senior year—and then he 
dumps me three days before prom for some guy he’d been 
having a thing with for months.” 


“He was a prick,” Adam muttered. 


“I have three choices. Not go to the dance and mope at 
home. Go alone and mope at school. Or, have my best friend 
—who was planning on staying home and moping over 
gamma-aminobutyric acids—come as my date. Guess which?” 


Olive gasped. “How did you convince him?” 


“That’s the thing, I didn’t. When I told him about what 
Richie did, he offered!” 


“Don’t get used to it,” Adam mumbled. 
“Can you believe it, Olive?” 


That Adam would pretend to be in a relationship with 
someone to get them out of a miserable situation? “Nope.” 


“We held hands. We slow-danced. We made Richie spit out 
his punch and regret every single one of his wretched choices. 
Then we went home and played even more Final Fantasy. It 
was the shit.” 


“It was surprisingly fun,” Adam conceded, almost 
reluctantly. 


Olive looked at him, and a realization dawned on her: 
Holden was Adam’s Anh. His person. It was obvious that 
Adam and Tom were very close, too, but the relationship 


Adam had with Holden was something else, and . . . and Olive 
had no idea what to do with this piece of information. 


Maybe she should tell Malcolm. He’d either have a field 
day or go completely berserk. 


“Well,” Holden said, standing up. “This was fantastic. Pl 
go get coffee, but we should hang out soon, the three of us. I 
can’t remember the last time I had the pleasure of 
embarrassing Adam in front of a girlfriend. For now, though, 
he’s all yours.” He followed the word “yours” with a smirk 
that had Olive blushing. 


Adam rolled his eyes when Holden left for the coffee 
counter. Fascinated, Olive followed him with her gaze for 
several moments. “Um, that was... ?” 


“Holden for you.” Adam seemed barely annoyed. 


She nodded, still a little dazed. “I can’t believe I’m not 
your first.” 


“My first?” 
“Your first fake date.” 


“Right. I guess prom qualifies.” He seemed to mull it over. 
“Holden has had some . . . bad luck with relationships. 
Undeserved bad luck.” 


It warmed her chest, the protective concern in his tone. 
Made her wonder if he was even aware of it. 


“Did he and Tom ever... ?” 


He shook his head. “Holden would be outraged if he knew 
you asked.” 


“Why doesn’t he want to drive Tom to the airport, then?” 


Adam shrugged. “Holden has always had a very deep, very 
irrational dislike of Tom, ever since grad school.” 


“Oh. Why?” 


“Not sure. Not sure Holden knows, either. Tom says he’s 
jealous. I think it’s just a personality thing.” 


Olive fell silent, absorbing the information. “You didn’t tell 
Holden about us, either. That it’s not real.” 


“No.” 
“Why?” 


Adam looked away. “I don’t know.” His jaw tensed. “I 
think I just didn’t . . .” His voice trailed off, and he shook his 
head before giving her a smile, small and a little forced. “He 
speaks very highly of you, you know?” 


“Holden? Of me?” 
“Of your work. And your research.” 


“Oh.” She had no idea what to say to that. When did you 
talk about me? And why? “Oh,” she repeated uselessly. 


She wasn’t sure why now, in this very moment, but the 
possible ramifications of their arrangement on Adam’s life hit 
her in full for the first time. They had agreed to fake-date 
because they both had something to gain from it, but it 
occurred to her that Adam also had significantly more to lose. 
Out of all the people she loved, Olive was only lying to one, 
Anh, and that was absolutely unavoidable. She could not care 
less about other students’ opinions. Adam, though . . . he was 
lying on a daily basis to his colleagues and his friends. His 
grads interacted with him every day believing that he was 
dating one of their peers. Did they think him lecherous? Had 
his relationship with Olive changed their perception of him? 
And what about other faculty members in the department, or in 
adjacent programs? Just because dating a grad student was 
allowed, it didn’t mean that it wasn’t frowned upon. And what 
if Adam met—or had already met—someone he actually 
liked? When they’d struck their deal, he’d said he wasn’t 
going to date, but that had been weeks ago. Olive herself had 


been convinced that she’d never be interested in dating anyone 
at the time—and didn’t that make her want to laugh now, in a 
remarkably unfunny way? Not to mention that she alone was 
benefitting from their arrangement. Anh and Jeremy had 
bought her lie, but Adam’s research funds were still frozen. 


And yet, he was still helping her despite all of this. And 
Olive was repaying his kindness by getting ideas and 
developing feelings that were sure to make him feel 
uncomfortable. 


“Do you want to get coffee?” 


Olive looked up from her hands. “No.” She cleared her 
throat against the burning sensation lodged behind her 
sternum. The idea of coffee made her nauseous. “I think I need 
to go back to the lab.” 


She bent down to retrieve her backpack, meaning to stand 
and leave immediately, but halfway through, a thought swept 
over her, and she found herself staring at him. He was sitting 
across from her with a concerned expression, a slight frown 
creasing his brow. 


She attempted a smile. “We are friends, right?” 
His frown deepened. “Friends?” 
“Yes. You and I.” 


He studied for a long moment. Something new passed 
through his face, stark and a little sad. Too fleeting to interpret. 
“Yes, Olive.” 


She nodded, unsure as to whether she should be feeling 
relieved. This was not how she’d thought today would go, and 
there was a strange pressure behind her eyelids, which had her 
sliding her arms through the straps of her backpack that much 
quicker. She waved him goodbye with a tremulous smile, and 
she’d have already been out of this damn Starbucks, if he 
hadn’t said with that voice of his: “Olive.” 


She paused right in front of his chair and looked down at 
him. It was so odd, to be the taller one for once. 


“This might be inappropriate, but . . .” His jaw shifted, and 
he closed his eyes for a second. As if to collect his thoughts. 
“Olive. You are really . . . You are extraordinary, and I cannot 
imagine that if you told Jeremy how you feel he wouldn’t .. .” 
He trailed off and then nodded. A punctuation of sorts, as his 
words and the way he’d said them brought her that much 
closer to tears. 


He thought it was Jeremy. Adam thought Olive had been in 
love with Jeremy when they’d begun their arrangement—he 
thought she was still in love with him. Because she’d just told 
a half-assed lie that she was too afraid to take back and— 


It was going to happen. She was going to cry, and what she 
wanted most in the world was to not do it in front of Adam. 


“PIL see you next week, okay?” She didn’t wait for his 
response and walked briskly toward the exit, her shoulder 
bumping into someone she should have apologized to. Once 
she was outside, she took a deep breath and marched to the 
biology building, trying to empty her mind, forcing herself to 
think about the section she was slated to TA later today, the 
fellowship application she’d promised Dr. Aslan she’d send by 
tomorrow, the fact that Anh’s sister would be in town next 
weekend and had made plans to cook Vietnamese food for 
everyone. 


A chilly wind weaved through the leaves of the campus 
trees, pushing Olive’s sweater against her body. She hugged 
herself and didn’t look back to the café. Fall had finally begun. 


Chapter Twelve 


ef HYPOTHESIS: If | am bad at doing activity A, my chances of 
being asked to engage in activity A will rise exponentially. 


Campus felt strangely empty with Adam gone, even on days in 
which she likely wouldn’t have met him anyway. It didn’t 
make much sense: Stanford was most definitely not empty, but 
teeming with loud, annoying undergrads on their way to and 
from class. Olive’s life, too, was full: her mice were old 
enough for the behavioral assays to be run, she’d finally gotten 
revisions for a paper she’d submitted months earlier, and she 
had to start making concrete plans for her move to Boston next 
year; the class she was TA’ing had a test coming up, and 
undergrads magically began to pop by during office hours, 
looking panicky and asking questions that were invariably 
answered in the first three lines of the syllabus. 


Malcolm spent a couple of days trying to convince Olive to 
tell Adam the truth, and then became—thankfully—too 
discouraged by her stubbornness and too busy trying to 
meditate away his own dating drama to insist. He did bake 
several batches of butterscotch cookies, though, patently lying 
that he was “not rewarding your self-destructive behaviors, 
Olive, but just perfecting my recipe.” Olive ate them all, and 
hugged him from behind while he sprinkled sea salt on top of 
the last batch. 


On Saturday, Anh came over for beer and s’mores, and she 
and Olive daydreamed about leaving academia and finding 
industry jobs that paid a proper salary and acknowledged the 
existence of free time. 


“We could, like, sleep in on Sunday mornings. Instead of 
having to check on our mice at six a.m.” 


“Yeah.” Anh sighed wistfully. Pride and Prejudice and 
Zombies was running in the background, but neither of them 
was paying attention. “We could buy real ketchup instead of 
stealing packets from Burger King. And order that wireless 
vacuum cleaner I saw on TV.” 


Olive giggled drunkenly and turned to her side, making the 
bed squeak. “Seriously? A vacuum cleaner?” 


“A wireless one. It’s the shit, Ol.” 
“That is...” 
“What?” 


“Just . . .” Olive giggled some more. “It’s the most random 
thing.” 


“Shut up.” Anh smiled but didn’t open her eyes. “I have 
severe dust allergies. You know what, though?” 


“Are you going to hit me with a Trivial Pursuit vacuum 
cleaner fact?” 


The corners of Anh’s eyes crinkled. “Nah,” she said, “I 
don’t have any. Wait—I think that maybe the first female 
corporate CEO worked for a vacuum cleaner company.” 


“No way. That is actually cool.” 


“But maybe I’m making it up.” Anh shrugged. “Anyway, 
what I meant to say is . . . I think I still want it?” 


“The vacuum cleaner?” Olive yawned without bothering to 
cover her mouth. 


“No. An academic job. And everything that comes with it. 
The lab, the grad students, the outrageous teaching load, the 
race for the NIH grants, the disproportionately low salary. The 
whole shebang. Jeremy says that Malcolm has it right. That 


industry jobs are where it’s at. But I think I want to stay and 
become a professor. It'll be miserable, for sure, but it’s the 
only way to create a good environment for women like us, Ol. 
Give some competition to all these entitled white men.” She 
grinned, beautiful and fierce. “Jeremy can go into industry and 
make a ton of blood money that I'll invest in wireless vacuum 
cleaners.” 


Olive drunkenly studied the drunken determination on 
Anh’s drunken face, thinking that there was something 
reassuring in knowing that her closest friend was starting to 
figure out what she wanted her life to be like. Who she wanted 
to live it with. It did send a pang deep in Olive’s stomach, in 
that spot that seemed to feel Adam’s absence most acutely, but 
she pushed it down, trying not to think about it too hard. 
Instead she reached for her friend’s hand, squeezed it once, 
and inhaled the sweet scent of apple from her hair. 


“You'll be so good at it, Anh. I can’t wait to see you 
change the world.” 


ALL IN ALL, Olive’s life continued as it always had—except that 
for the first time, there was something else she’d rather be 
doing. Someone else she’d rather be with. 


So, this is liking someone, she mused. Feeling like the 
biology building was not worth going to because if Adam was 
out of town, even the most remote chance of running into him 
had been taken away from her; constantly spinning around 
after catching a glimpse of jet-black hair, or when hearing a 
deep voice that sounded as rich as Adam’s but really wasn’t; 
thinking of him because her friend Jess mentioned planning a 
trip to the Netherlands, or when on Jeopardy! the correct 
answer to “Aichmophobia” turned out to be “What is fear of 


needles?”; feeling stuck in an odd limbo, waiting, just waiting, 
waiting . . . for nothing. Adam was going to come back in a 
few days, and Olive’s lie that she was in love with someone 
else was still going to be there. September twenty-ninth would 
arrive all too soon, and anyway, the assumption that Adam 
could ever see Olive in any romantic light was preposterous. 
All considered, she was lucky he liked her enough to want to 
be her friend. 


On Sunday, her phone pinged while she was running at the 
gym. When Adam’s name popped up at the top of the screen, 
she immediately jumped to read it. Except that there wasn’t 
much to read: just the image of a huge drink in a plastic cup, 
topped with what looked like a muffin. The bottom of the 
image proudly stated “Pumpkin Pie Frappuccino,” and below 
that, Adam’s text: 


Adam: Think I can smuggle this on the plane? 


She didn’t need to be told that she was grinning at her 
phone like an idiot. 


Olive: Well, TSA is notoriously incompetent. 
Olive: Though maybe not that incompetent? 
Adam: Too bad. 

Adam: Wish you were here, then. 


Olive’s smile stayed in place for a long time. And then, 
when she remembered the mess she was in, it faded into a 
heavy sigh. 


SHE WAS CARRYING a tray of tissue samples to the electron 
microscope lab when someone patted her on the shoulder, 
startling her. Olive nearly tripped and destroyed several 


thousand dollars’ worth of federal grant funding. When she 
turned, Dr. Rodrigues was staring at her with his usual boyish 
grin—like they were best buddies about to go for a beer and a 
jolly good time, instead of a Ph.D. student and a former 
member of her advisory committee who’d never quite gotten 
around to reading any of the paperwork she’d turned in. 


“Dr. Rodrigues.” 

His brow wrinkled. “I thought we’d settled on Holden?” 
Had they? “Right. Holden.” 

He smiled, pleased. “Boyfriend’s out of town, huh?” 
“Oh. Um... Yes.” 


“You going in there?” He pointed at the microscope lab 
with his chin, and Olive nodded. “Here, let me get it.” He 
swiped his badge to unlock the door and held it open for her. 


“Thank you.” She settled her samples on a bench and 
smiled gratefully, sliding her hands into her back pockets. “I 
was going to get a cart, but I couldn’t find one.” 


“There’s only one left on this floor. I think someone’s 
bringing them home and reselling them.” 


He grinned, and—Malcolm was right. Had been right for 
the past two years: there really was something easygoing and 
effortlessly attractive about Holden. Not that Olive seemed to 
be interested in anything but tall, broody, sullen hunks with 
genius IQs. 


“Can’t blame ’em. I’d have done the same in my grad 
school days. So, how’s life?” 


“Um, fine. You?” 


Holden ignored her question and casually leaned against 
the wall. “How bad is it?” 


“Bad?” 


“Adam being gone. Hell, even I miss that little shit.” He 
chuckled. “How are you holding up?” 


“Oh.” She took her hands out of her pockets, crossed her 
arms in front of her chest, and then changed her mind and 
dropped them woodenly by her sides. Yep. Perfect. Acting 
natural. “Fine. Good. Busy.” 


Holden looked genuinely relieved. “Great. Have you guys 
been talking on the phone?” 


No. Of course not. Talking on the phone is the hardest, 
most stressful thing in the world, and I cant do it with the nice 
lady who schedules my dental cleanings, let alone with Adam 
Carlsen. “Ah, mostly texting, you know?” 


“Yeah, I do know. However buttoned-up and sulky Adam is 
with you, please know that he’s making an effort and he’s a 
million times worse with everyone else. Me included.” He 
sighed and shook his head, but there was a fondness behind it. 
An easy affection that Olive couldn’t miss. My oldest friend, 
he’d said about Adam, and clearly he hadn’t been lying. “He’s 
actually gotten a lot better, since you guys started dating.” 


Olive felt on the verge of a full-body cringe. Unsure of 
what to say, she settled for a simple, painful, awkward: 
“Really?” 


Holden nodded. “Yep. I’m so glad he finally scrounged up 
the courage to ask you out. He’d been going on and on about 
this ‘amazing girl’ for years, but he was concerned about being 
in the same department, and you know how he is. . .” He 
shrugged and waved his hand. “I’m glad he finally managed to 
pull his head out of his ass.” 


Olive’s brain stuttered. Her neurons went sluggish and 
cold, and it took her several seconds to process that Adam had 
been wanting to ask her out for years. She couldn’t wrap her 
head around it, because . . . it was not possible. It didn’t make 
sense. Adam didn’t even remember Olive existed before she’d 


Title-[Xed him in the hallway a few weeks ago. The more she 
thought about it, the more she grew convinced that if he’d had 
any recollection of their bathroom meeting, he would have 
said as much. Adam was famously direct, after all. 


Holden must have been referring to someone else. And 
Adam must have feelings for that someone. Someone he 
worked with, someone who was in their department. Someone 
who was “amazing.” 


Olive’s mind, half frozen until a few seconds ago, began to 
spiral with the knowledge. Setting aside the fact that this 
conversation was an utter invasion of Adam’s privacy, Olive 
couldn’t stop herself from considering the implications of their 
arrangement for him. If the person Holden was talking about 
was one of Adam’s colleagues, there was no chance that she 
hadn’t heard about Adam and Olive dating. It was possible 
that she’d seen the two of them get coffee together on a 
Wednesday, or Olive sitting on Adam’s lap during Tom’s talk, 
or—God, Olive slathering him with sunblock at that 
godforsaken picnic. Which couldn’t be good for his prospects. 
Unless Adam didn’t mind, because he was sure beyond any 
doubt that his feelings were unrequited—and oh, wouldn’t that 
be funny? About as funny as a Greek tragedy. 


“Anyway.” Holden pushed away from the wall, his hand 
coming up to scratch his nape. “I think we should go on a 
double date one of these days. I’ve been taking a break from 
dating—too much heartache—but maybe it’s time to dip my 
toes in again. Hopefully I'll snatch myself a boyfriend soon.” 


The weight in Olive’s stomach sank even lower. “That 
would be lovely.” She attempted a smile. 


“Right?” He grinned. “Adam would hate it with the 
intensity of a thousand suns.” 


He really would. 


“But I could tell you so many juicy stories about him, 
approximately aged ten to twenty-five.” Holden was delighted 
at the prospect. “He’d be mortified.” 


“Are they about taxidermy?” 
“Taxidermy?” 


“Nothing. Just something Tom had said about . . .” She 
waved her hand. “Nothing.” 


Holden’s gaze turned sharp. “Adam said you might be 
going to work with Tom next year. Is that true?” 


“Oh... yeah. That’s the plan.” 


He nodded, pensive. Then seemed to come to some sort of 
decision and added, “Watch your back while you’re around 
him, okay?” 


“My back?” What? Why? Did this have anything to do 
with what Adam had mentioned—Holden not liking Tom? 
“What do you mean?” 


“Adam’s back, too. Especially Adam’s back.” Holden’s 
expression remained intense for a moment, and then lightened 
up. “Anyway. Tom only met Adam in grad school. But I was 
there in his teenage years—that’s when the good stories are 
from.” 


“Oh. You probably shouldn’t tell me. Since . . .” Since he’s 
faking a relationship with me and surely doesn t want me in his 
business. Also, he’s probably in love with someone else. 


“Oh, of course. I’Il wait until he’s present. I want to see his 
face when I tell you everything about his newsboy-cap phase.” 


She blinked. “His... ?” 


He nodded solemnly and stepped out, closing the door 
behind him and leaving her alone in the chilly, semidark lab. 
Olive had to take several deep breaths before she could focus 
on her work. 


WHEN SHE RECEIVED the email, she initially thought it must be 
an error. Maybe she’d misread—she hadn’t been sleeping well, 
and as it turned out, having an unwanted, unreciprocated crush 
came with all sorts of scatter-headedness—though after a 
second look, then a third and a fourth, she realized that wasn’t 
the case. So maybe the mistake was on the SBD conference’s 
side. Because there was no way—absolutely no way—that 
they’d really meant to inform her that the abstract she’d 
submitted had been selected to be part of a panel. 


A panel with faculty. 


It was just not possible. Graduate students were rarely 
selected for oral presentations. Most of the time they just made 
posters with their findings. Talks were for scholars whose 
careers were already advanced—except that when Olive 
logged into the conference website and downloaded the 
program, her name was there. And out of all the speakers’ 
names, hers was the only one not followed by any letters. No 
MD. No Ph.D. No MD-Ph.D. 


Crap. 


She ran out of the lab clutching her laptop to her chest. 
Greg gave her a dirty look when she almost crashed into him 
in the hallway, but she ignored him and stormed inside Dr. 
Aslan’s office out of breath, her knees suddenly made of jelly. 


“Can we talk?” She closed the door without waiting for an 
answer. 


Her adviser looked up from behind her desk with an 
alarmed expression. “Olive, what is—” 


“I don’t want to give a talk. I can’t give a talk.” She shook 
her head, trying to sound reasonable but only managing panic- 


stricken and frantic. “I can t.” 


Dr. Aslan cocked her head and steepled her hands. The 
veneer of calm her adviser projected was usually comforting, 
but now it made Olive want to flip the nearest piece of 
furniture. 


Calm down. Deep breaths. Use your mindfulness and all 
that stuff Malcolms always yapping his mouth about. “Dr. 
Aslan, my SBD abstract was accepted as a talk. Not as a 
poster, a talk. Out loud. On a panel. Standing. In front of 
people.” Olive’s voice had made its way to a shriek. And yet, 
for reasons beyond understanding, Dr. Aslan’s face split into a 
grin. 


“This is wonderful news!” 
Olive blinked. And then blinked again. “It’s .. . not?” 


“Nonsense.” Dr. Aslan stood and walked around her desk, 
running her hand up and down Olive’s arm in what she clearly 
intended as a congratulatory gesture. “This is fantastic. A talk 
will give you much more visibility than a poster. You might be 
able to network for a postdoctoral position. I am so, so happy 
for you.” 


Olive’s jaw dropped. “But...” 
“But?” 

“I cannot give a talk. I can’t talk.” 
“You're talking right now, Olive.” 
“Not in front of people.” 

“T am people.” 


“You’re not many people. Dr. Aslan, I can’t talk in front of 
a lot of people. Not about science.” 


c Why? 9 


“Because.” Because my throat will dry up and my brain 
will shut down and I will be so bad that someone from the 
audience will take out a crossbow and shoot me in the 
kneecap. “I’m not ready. To speak. In public.” 


“Of course you are. You’re a good public speaker.” 


“I’m not. I sammer. I blush. I meander. A lot. Especially in 
front of large crowds, and—” 


“Olive,” Dr. Aslan interrupted her with a stern tone. “What 
do I always tell you?” 


“Um... “Don’t misplace the multichannel pipette’?” 
“The other thing.” 


She sighed. “ ‘Carry yourself with the confidence of a 
mediocre white man.’” 


“More than that, if possible. Since there is absolutely 
nothing mediocre about you.” 


Olive closed her eyes and took enough deep breaths to pull 
back from the verge of a panic attack. When she opened them, 
her adviser was smiling encouragingly. 


“Dr. Aslan.” Olive grimaced. “I really don’t think I can do 
this.” 


“I know you don’t.” There was some sadness in her 
expression. “But you can. And we’ll work together until you 
feel up to the task.” This time, she put both her hands on 
Olive’s shoulders. Olive was still hugging her laptop to her 
chest, like she would a life buoy in the open sea, but the touch 
was oddly comforting. “Don’t worry. We have a couple of 
weeks to get you ready.” 


You say that. You say “we,” but I'll be the one to speak in 
front of hundreds of people, and when someone asks a three- 
minute-long question meant to get me to admit that deep down 
my work is poorly structured and useless, I’ll be the one to 


crap her pants. “Right.” Olive had to force her head into an 
up-and-down motion and take a deep breath. She exhaled 
slowly. “Okay.” 


“Why don’t you put together a draft? You could practice 
during the next lab meeting.” Another reassuring smile, and 
Olive was nodding again, not feeling reassured in the least. 
“And if you have any questions, I’m always here. Oh, I am so 
disappointed that I won’t get to see your talk. You must 
promise to record it for me. It will be just as if I was there.” 


Except that you wont be there, and I'll be alone, she 
thought bitterly while closing the door of Dr. Aslan’s office 
behind her. She slumped against the wall and squeezed her 
eyes shut, trying to quiet the agitated mess of thoughts 
fluttering inside her head. And then she opened them again 
when she heard her name in Malcolm’s voice. He was standing 
in front of her with Anh, studying her with a half-amused, 
half-worried expression. They were holding Starbucks cups. 
The smell of caramel and peppermint wafted over, making her 
stomach churn. 


“Hey.” 


Anh took a sip of her drink. “Why are you taking a 
standing nap next to your adviser’s office?” 


“I...” Olive pushed away from the wall and walked a few 
steps away from Dr. Aslan’s door, rubbing her nose with the 
back of her hand. “My abstract got accepted. The SBD one.” 


“Congrats!” Anh smiled. “But that was pretty much a 
given, right?” 

“It was accepted as a talk.” 

For a few seconds, two pairs of eyes just stared at her in 
silence. Olive thought that Malcolm might be wincing, but 


when she turned to check, there was just a vague smile pasted 
on his face. “That’s . .. awesome?” 


“Yeah.” Anh’s eyes darted to Malcolm and back to Olive. 
“That’s, um, great.” 


“It’s a disaster of epic proportions.” 


Anh and Malcolm exchanged a worried glance. They knew 
very well how Olive felt about public speaking. 


“What is Dr. Aslan saying about it?” 


“The usual.” She rubbed her eyes. “That it will be fine. 
That we’ll work on it together.” 


“I think she’s right,’ Anh said. “Pl help you practice. 
We’ll make sure you know it by heart. And it will be fine.” 


“Yeah.” Or it wont. “Also, the conference is in less than 
two weeks. We should book the hotel—or are we doing 
Airbnb?” 


Something odd happened the moment she asked the 
question. Not with Anh—she was still peacefully sipping on 
her coffee—but Malcolm’s cup froze halfway to his mouth, 
and he bit his lip while studying the sleeve of his sweater. 


“About that... ,” he began. 
Olive frowned. “What?” 


“Well.” Malcolm shuffled his feet a little, and maybe it was 
accidental, the way he seemed to be drifting away from Olive 
—but she didn’t think so. “We already have.” 


“You already booked something?” 


Anh nodded cheerfully. “Yes.” She didn’t appear to notice 
that Malcolm was about to have a stroke. “The conference 
hotel.” 


“Oh. Okay. Let me know what I owe you then, since—” 


“The thing is . . .” Malcolm seemed to move even farther 
away. 


“What thing?” 


“Well.” He fidgeted with the cardboard holder of his cup, 
and his eyes darted to Anh, who seemed blissfully oblivious to 
his discomfort. “Jeremy’s hotel room is paid for because of 
that fellowship he’s on, and he asked Anh to stay with him. 
And then Jess, Cole, and Hikaru offered for me to stay with 
them.” 


“What?” Olive glanced at Anh. “Seriously?” 


“It will save all of us a lot of money. And it will be my first 
trip with Jeremy,” Anh interjected distractedly. She was typing 
something on her phone. “Oh my God, guys, I think I found it! 
A location for the Boston event for BIPOC women in STEM! I 
think I’ve got it!” 


“That’s great,” Olive said weakly. “But I thought... . I 
thought we’d room together.” 


Anh glanced up, looking contrite. “Yeah, I know. That’s 
what I told Jeremy, but he pointed out that you . . . you know.” 
Olive tilted her head, confused, and Anh continued, “I mean, 
why would you want to spend money on a room when you 
could stay with Carlsen?” 


Oh. “Because.” Because. Because, because, because. 
(&lt;4 99 
| aes 


“PI miss you, but it’s not as if we'll be in the rooms for 
anything other than sleeping.” 


“Right. . . .” She pressed her lips together, and added, 
“Sure.” 


Anh’s grin made her want to groan. “Awesome. We’ll get 
meals together and hang out for poster sessions. And at night, 
of course.” 


“Of course.” It was all Olive could do not to sound bitter. 
“I look forward to it,” she added with as good a smile as she 
could muster. 


“Okay. Great. I gotta go—the Women in Science outreach 
committee is meeting in five. But let’s get together this 
weekend to plan fun activities for Boston. Jeremy said 
something about a ghost tour!” 


Olive waited until Anh was out of earshot before turning to 
face Malcolm. He was already raising his hands defensively. 


“First of all, Anh came up with this plan while I was 
monitoring that twenty-four-hour experiment—worst day of 
my life, I cannot graduate soon enough. And after that—what 
was I supposed to do? Inform her that you’re not going to stay 
with Carlsen because you’re fake-dating? Oh, but wait—now 
that you’ve got a huge crush on him maybe it’s sort of real—” 


“Okay, I get it.” Her stomach was starting to ache. “You 
still could have told me.” 


“I was going to. And then I dumped Neuro Jude and he 
went crazy and egged my car. And after that my dad called me 
to say hi and asked me about how my projects are going, 
which devolved into him grilling me on why I’m not using a 
C. elegans model, and, Ol, you know how incredibly nosy and 
micromanaging he can be, which led to us having an argument 
and my mom got involved and—” He stopped and took a deep 
breath. “Well, you were there. You heard the screams. Bottom 
line 1s, it totally slipped my mind, and I’m so sorry.” 


“It’s fine.” She scratched her temple. “I’m going to have to 
find someplace to stay.” 


“Pll help you,” Malcolm told her eagerly. “We can look 
online tonight.” 


“Thanks, but don’t worry about it. PII manage.” Or not. 
Probably. Likely. Since the conference was in less than two 
weeks, and everything was likely already booked up. What 
was left was undoubtedly so out of her price range, she’d have 
to sell a kidney to be able to afford it. Which could be an 
option—she did have two. 


“You’re not mad, right?” 


“I...” Yes. No. Maybe a little. “No. It’s not your fault.” 
She hugged Malcolm back when he leaned into her, reassuring 
him with a few awkward pats on the shoulder. As much as 
she’d have liked to blame him for this, she only had to look at 
herself. The crux of her problems—most of them, at least— 
was her moronic, harebrained decision to lie to Anh in the first 
place. To begin this fake-dating sham. Now she was giving a 
talk at this stupid conference, probably after sleeping at a bus 
station and eating moss for breakfast, and despite all of this 
she couldn’t stop thinking about Adam. Just perfect. 


Laptop under her arm, Olive headed back to the lab, the 
prospect of getting her slides in order for her talk 
simultaneously daunting and depressing. There was something 
leaden and unpleasant weighing on her stomach, and on 
impulse she made a detour to the restroom and entered the stall 
farthest from the door, leaning against the wall until the back 
of her head hit the cold tile surface. 


When the weight in her belly began to feel too heavy, her 
knees gave out on her and her back slid down until she sat on 
the floor. Olive stayed like that for a long time, trying to 
pretend that this wasn’t her life. 


Chapter Thirteen 


eg HYPOTHESIS: Approximately two out of three fake-dating 
situations will eventually involve room-sharing; 50 percent of 
room-sharing situations will be further complicated by the 
presence of only one bed. 


There was an Airbnb twenty-five minutes from the conference 
center, but it was an inflatable mattress on the floor of a 
storage room, charging 180 bucks per night, and even if she 
could have afforded it, one of the reviews reported that the 
host had a penchant for role-playing Viking with the guests, 
so . . . No, thank you. She found a more affordable one forty- 
five minutes away by subway, but when she went to reserve 
the room, she discovered that someone had beaten her to it by 
mere seconds, and she was tempted to hurl her laptop across 
the coffee shop. She was trying to decide between a seedy 
motel and a cheap couch in the suburbs when a shadow cast 
over her. She looked up with a frown, expecting an undergrad 
wanting to use the outlet she’d been hoarding, and instead 
found... 


“Oh.” 


Adam was standing in front of her, the late-afternoon 
sunlight haloing his hair and shoulders, fingers closed around 
an iPad as he looked down at her with a somber expression. It 
had been less than a week since she’d last seen him—six days 
to be precise, which was just a handful of hours and minutes. 
Nothing, considering that she’d barely known him a month. 
And yet it was as if the space she was in, the whole campus, 
the entire city was transformed by knowing that he was back. 


Possibilities. That’s what Adam’s presence felt like. Of 
what, she was not certain. 


“Youre . . .” Her mouth was dry. An event of great 
scientific interest, considering that she’d taken a sip from her 
water bottle maybe ten seconds ago. “You’re back.” 


“Tam.” 


She hadn’t forgotten his voice. Or his height. Or the way 
his stupid clothes fit him. She couldn’t have—she had two 
medial temporal lobes, fully functioning and tucked nicely 
inside her skull, which meant that she was perfectly able to 
encode and store memories. She hadn’t forgotten anything, 
and she wasn’t sure why right now it felt as if she had. “I 
thought . . . I didn’t—” Yes, Olive. Wonderful. Very eloquent. 
“I didn’t know that you were back.” 


His face was a little closed off, but he nodded. “I flew in 
last night.” 


“Oh.” She should have probably prepared something to 
say, but she hadn’t expected to see him until Wednesday. If she 
had, maybe she wouldn’t have been wearing her oldest 
leggings and most tattered T-shirt, and her hair wouldn’t have 
been a mess. Not that she was under any illusion that Adam 
would have noticed her if she’d been wearing a swimsuit or a 
gala dress. But still. “Do you want to sit?” She leaned forward 
to gather her phone and notebook, making room on the other 
side of the small table. It was only when he hesitated before 
taking a seat that it occurred to her that maybe he had no 
intention of staying, that now he might feel forced to do so. He 
folded himself into the chair gracefully, like a big cat. 


Great job, Olive. Who doesnt love a needy person who 
hounds them for attention? 


“You don’t have to. I know you’re busy. MacArthur grants 
to win and grads to brutalize and broccoli to eat.” He’d 


probably rather be anywhere else. She bit her thumbnail, 
feeling guilty, starting to panic, and— 


And then he smiled. And suddenly there were grooves 
around his mouth and dimples in his cheeks and his face was 
completely altered by them. The air at the table thinned. Olive 
couldn’t quite breathe. 


“You know, there’s a middle ground between living off 
brownies and exclusively eating broccoli.” 


She grinned, for no reason other than—Adam was here, 
with her. And he was smiling. “That’s a lie.” 


He shook his head, mouth still curved. “How are you?” 
Better now. “Good. How was Boston?” 
“Good.” 


“I’m glad you’re back. I’m pretty sure the biology dropout 
rates have seen a steep reduction. We can’t have that.” 


He gave her a patient, put-upon look. “You look tired, 
smart-ass.” 


“Oh. Yeah, I... .” She rubbed her cheek with her hand, 
ordering herself not to feel self-conscious about her looks, just 
like she’d always made a point not to. It would be an equally 
stupid idea to wonder what the woman Holden mentioned the 
other day looked like. Probably stunning. Probably feminine, 
with curves; someone who actually needed to wear a bra, 
someone who was not half covered in freckles, who had 
mastered the art of applying liquid eyeliner without making a 
mess of herself. 


“Pm fine. It’s been a week, though.” She massaged her 
temple. 


He cocked his head. “What happened?” 


“Nothing . .. My friends are stupid, and I hate them.” She 
felt instantly guilty and made a face. “Actually, I don’t hate 


them. I do hate that I love them, though.” 
“Ts this the sunscreen friend? Anh?” 


“The one and only. And my roommate, too, who really 
should know better.” 


“What did they do?” 


“They .. .” Olive pressed into both eyes with her fingers. 
“It’s a long story. They found alternative accommodations for 
SBD. Which means that now I have to find a place on my 


99 


own. 
“Why did they do that?” 


“Because . . .” She briefly closed her eyes and sighed. 
“Because they assumed that I’d want to stay with you. Since 
you’re my .. . you know. ‘Boyfriend.’” 


He went still for a couple of seconds. And then: “I see.” 


“Yep. A pretty bold assumption, but . . .” She spread her 
arms and shrugged. 


He bit the inside of his cheek, looking pensive. “I’m sorry 
you won’t get to room with them.” 


She waved her hand. “Oh, that’s not it. That would have 
been fun, but it’s just that now I need to find something else 
nearby, and there are no affordable options.” Her eyes fell on 
the screen of her laptop. “I’m thinking of booking this motel 
that’s an hour away and—” 


“Won’t they know?” 


She looked up from the grainy, shady-looking picture of 
the place. “Mm?” 


“Won’t Anh know that you’re not staying with me?” 
Oh. “Where are you staying?” 


“The conference hotel.” 


Of course. “Well.” She scratched her nose. “I wouldn’t tell 
her. I don’t think she’ll pay too much attention.” 


“But she’ll notice if you’re staying one hour away.” 


“TT...” Yes. They would notice, and ask questions, and 
Olive would have to come up with a bunch of excuses and 
even more half-truths to deal with it. Add a few blocks to this 
Jenga tower of lies she’d been building for weeks. “I'll figure 
it out.” 


He nodded slowly. “I’m sorry.” 

“Oh, it’s not your fault.” 

“One could argue that it is, in fact, my fault.” 
“Not at all.” 


“I would offer to pay for your hotel room, but I doubt 
there’s anything left in a ten-mile radius.” 


“Oh, no.” She shook her head emphatically. “And I 
wouldn’t accept it. It’s not a cup of coffee. And a scone. And a 
cookie. And a pumpkin Frappuccino.” She batted her eyes at 
him and leaned forward, trying to change the topic. “Which, 
by the way, is new on the menu. You could totally buy it for 
me, and that would make my day.” 


“Sure.” He looked slightly nauseous. 


“Awesome.” She grinned. “I think it’s cheaper today, some 
kind of Tuesday sale, so—” 


“But you could room with me.” 


The way he put it forward, calm and sensible, almost made 
it sound like it was no big deal. And Olive almost fell for it, 
until her ears and brain seemed to finally connect with each 
other and she was able to process the meaning of what he’d 
just said. 


That she. 


Could room. 
With him. 


Olive knew full well what sharing quarters with someone 
entailed, even for a very short period. Sleeping in the same 
room meant seeing embarrassing pajamas, taking turns to use 
the bathroom, hearing the swish of someone trying to find a 
comfortable position under the sheets loud and clear in the 
dark. Sleeping in the same room meant— No. Nope. It was a 
terrible idea. And Olive was starting to think that maybe she 
had maxed those out for a while. So she cleared her throat. 


“I could not, actually.” 


He nodded calmly. But then, then he asked equally calmly, 
“Why?” and she wanted to bang her head against the table. 


“I couldn’t.” 


“The room is a double, of course,” he offered, as if that 
piece of information could have possibly changed her mind. 


“It’s not a good idea.” 
“Why?” 


“Because people will think that we . . .” She noticed 
Adam’s look and immediately hushed. “Okay, fine. They 
already think that. But.” 


“But?” 


“Adam.” She rubbed her forehead with her fingers. “There 
will be only one bed.” 


He frowned. “No, as I said it’s a double—” 
“It’s not. It won’t be. There will be only one bed, for sure.” 


He gave her a puzzled look. “I got the booking 
confirmation the other day. I can forward it to you if you want; 
it says that—” 


“It doesn’t matter what it says. It’s always one bed.” 


He stared at her, perplexed, and she sighed and leaned 
helplessly against the back of her chair. He’d clearly never 
seen a rom-com or read a romance novel in his life. “Nothing. 
Ignore me.” 


“My symposium is part of a satellite workshop the day 
before the conference starts, and then I’ll be speaking on the 
first day of the actual conference. I have the room for the 
entire conference, but I’ll probably need to leave for some 
meetings after night two, so you’d be by yourself from night 
three. We’d only overlap for one night.” 


She listened to the logical, methodical way he listed 
sensible reasons why she should just accept his offer and felt a 
wave of panic sweep over her. “It seems like a bad idea.” 


“That’s fine. I just don’t understand why.” 


“Because.” Because I dont want to. Because I have it bad. 
Because I’d probably have it even worse, after that. Because 
its going to be the week of September twenty-ninth, and I’ve 
been trying hard not to think about it. 


“Are you afraid that I'll try to kiss you without your 
consent? To sit on your lap, or fondle you under the pretext of 
applying sunscreen? Because I would never—” 


Olive chucked her phone at him. He caught it in his left 
hand, studied its glitter amino-acid case with a pleased 
expression, and then carefully set it next to her laptop. 


“I hate you,” She told him, sullen. She might have been 
pouting. And smiling at the same time. 


His mouth twitched. “I know.” 
“Am I ever going to live that stuff down?” 


“Unlikely. And if you do, I’m sure something else will 
come up.” 


She huffed, crossing her arms over her chest, and they 
exchanged a small smile. 


“I can ask Holden or Tom if I can stay with them, and leave 
you my room,” he suggested. “But they know that I already 
have one, so I’d have to come up with excuses—” 


“No, Pm not going to kick you out of your room.” She ran 
a hand through her hair and exhaled. “You'd hate it.” 


He tilted his head. “What?” 
“Rooming with me.” 
“I would?” 


“Yeah. You seem like a person who . . .” You seem like you 
like to keep others at arm’ length, uncompromising and ever 
so hard to know. You seem like you care very little about what 
people think of you. You seem like you know what you’re 
doing. You seem equally horrible and awesome, and just the 
thought that there s someone you'd like to open up to, someone 
whos not me, makes me feel like I cant sit at this table any 
longer. “Like you’d want your own space.” 


He held her gaze. “Olive. I think I'll be fine.” 


“But if you end up not being fine, then you’d be stuck with 


99 


me. 


“It’s one night.” His jaw clenched and relaxed, and he 
added, “We are friends, no?” 


Her own words, thrown back at her. 7 don t want to be your 
friend, she was tempted to say. Thing was, she also didn’t want 
to not be his friend. What she wanted was completely outside 
of her ability to obtain, and she needed to forget it. Scrap it 
from her brain. 


“Yes. We are.” 


“Then, as a friend, don’t force me to worry about you using 
public transportation late at night in a city you’re not familiar 


with. Biking on roads without bike lanes is bad enough,” he 
muttered, and she immediately felt a weight sink into her 
stomach. He was trying to be a good friend. He cared for her, 
and instead of being satisfied with what she currently had, she 
had to ruin it all and—and want more. 


She took a deep breath. “Are you sure? That it wouldn’t 
bother you?” 


He nodded, silent. 


“Okay, then. Okay.” She forced herself to smile. “Do you 
snore?” 


He huffed out a laugh. “I don’t know.” 
“Oh, come on. How can you not know?” 
He shrugged. “I just don’t.” 


“Well, that probably means you don’t. Otherwise, someone 
would have told you.” 


“Someone?” 


“A roommate.” It occurred to her that Adam was thirty- 
four and likely hadn’t had a roommate in about a decade. “Or 
a girlfriend.” 


He smiled faintly and lowered his gaze. “I guess my 
‘girlfriend’ will tell me after SBD, then.” He said it in a quiet, 
unassuming tone, clearly trying to make a joke, but Olive’s 
cheeks warmed, and she couldn’t quite bear to look at him 
anymore. Instead she picked at a thread on the sleeve of her 
cardigan, and searched for something to say. 


“My stupid abstract.” She cleared her throat. “It was 
accepted as a talk.” 


He met her eyes. “Faculty panel?” 
“Yeah.” 


“You’re not happy?” 


“No.” She winced. 
“Ts it the public-speaking thing?” 


He’d remembered. Of course he had. “Yeah. It will be 
awful.” 


Adam stared at her and said nothing. Not that it would be 
fine, not that the talk would go smoothly, not that she was 
overreacting and underselling a fantastic opportunity. His calm 
acceptance of her anxiety had the exact opposite effect of Dr. 
Aslan’s enthusiasm: it relaxed her. 


“When I was in my third year of grad school,” he said 
quietly, “my adviser sent me to give a faculty symposium in 
his stead. He told me only two days before, without any slides 
or a script. Just the title of the talk.” 


“Wow.” Olive tried to imagine what that would have felt 
like, being expected to perform something so daunting with so 
little forewarning. At the same time, part of her marveled at 
Adam self-disclosing something without being asked a direct 
question. “Why did he do that?” 


“Who knows?” He tilted his head back, staring at a spot 
above her head. His tone held a trace of bitterness. “Because 
he had an emergency. Because he thought it’d be a formative 
experience. Because he could.” 


Olive just bet that he could. She didn’t know Adam’s 
former adviser, but academia was very much an old boys’ 
club, where those who held the power liked to take advantage 
of those who didn’t without repercussions. 


“Was it? A formative experience?” 


He shrugged again. “As much as anything that keeps you 
awake in a panic for forty-eight hours straight can be.” 


Olive smiled. “And how did you do?” 


“I did...” He pressed his lips together. “Not well enough.” 
He was silent for a long moment, his gaze locked somewhere 
outside the café’s window. “Then again, nothing was ever 
good enough.” 


It seemed impossible that someone might look at Adam’s 
scientific accomplishments and find them lacking. That he 
could ever be anything less than the best at what he did. Was 
that why he was so severe in his judgment of others? Because 
he’d been taught to set the same impossible standards for 
himself? 


“Do you still keep in touch with him? Your adviser, I 
mean.” 


“He’s retired now. Tom has taken over what used to be his 
lab.” 


It was such an uncharacteristically opaque, carefully 
worded answer. Olive couldn’t help being curious. “Did you 
like him?” 


“It’s complicated.” He rubbed a hand over his jaw, looking 
pensive and far away. “No. No, I didn’t like him. I still don’t. 
He was .. .” It took him so long to continue, she almost 
convinced herself that he wouldn’t. But he did, staring at the 
late-afternoon sunlight disappearing behind the oak trees. 
“Brutal. My adviser was brutal.” 


She chuckled, and Adam’s eyes darted back to her face, 
narrow with confusion. 


“Sorry.” She was still laughing a little. “It’s just funny, to 
hear you complain about your old mentor. Because . . .” 


“Because?” 
“Because he sounds exactly like you.” 


“Pm not like him,” he retorted, more sharply than Olive 
had come to expect from him. It made her snort. 


“Adam, I’m pretty sure that if we were to ask anyone to 
describe you with one word, ‘brutal’ would come up one or 
ten times.” 


She saw him stiffen before she was even done speaking, 
the line of his shoulders suddenly tense and rigid, his jaw tight 
and with a slight twitch to it. Her first instinct was to 
apologize, but she was not sure for what. There was nothing 
new to what she’d just told him—they’d discussed his blunt, 
uncompromising mentoring style before, and he’d always 
taken it in stride. Owned it, even. And yet his fists were 
clenched on the table, and his eyes were darker than usual. 


“I... Adam, did I—” she stammered, but he interrupted 
her before she could continue. 


“Everyone has issues with their advisers,” he said, and 
there was a finality to his tone that warned her not to finish her 
sentence. Not to ask What happened? Where did you just go? 


So she swallowed and nodded. “Dr. Aslan is . . .” She 
hesitated. His knuckles were not quite as white anymore, and 
the tension in his muscles was slowly dissolving. It was 
possible that she’d imagined it. Yes, she must have. “She’s 
great. But sometimes I feel like she doesn’t really understand 
that I need more . . .” Guidance. Support. Some practical 
advice, instead of blind encouragement. “I’m not even sure 
what I need, myself. I think that might be part of the problem 
—I’m not very good at communicating it.” 


He nodded and appeared to choose his words carefully. 
“It’s hard, mentoring. No one teaches you how to do it. We’re 
trained to become scientists, but as professors, we’re also in 
charge of making sure that students learn to produce rigorous 
science. I hold my grads accountable, and I set high standards 
for them. They’re scared of me, and that’s fine. The stakes are 
high, and if being scared means that they’re taking their 
training seriously, then I’m okay with it.” 


She tilted her head. “What do you mean?” 


“My job is to make sure that my adult graduate students 
don’t become mediocre scientists. That means I’m the one 
who’s tasked with demanding that they rerun their experiments 
or adjust their hypotheses. It comes with the territory.” 


Olive had never been a people pleaser, but Adam’s attitude 
toward others’ perception of him was so cavalier, it was 
almost fascinating. “Do you really not care?” she asked, 
curious. “That your grads might dislike you as a person?” 


“Nah. I don’t like them very much, either.” She thought of 
Jess and Alex and the other half a dozen grads and postdocs 
mentored by Adam whom she didn’t know very well. The 
thought of him finding them as annoying as they found him 
despotic made her chuckle. “To be fair, I don’t like people in 
general.” 


“Right.” Don t ask, Olive. Do not ask. “Do you like me?” 


A millisecond of hesitation as he pressed his lips together. 
“Nope. You’re a smart-ass with abysmal taste in beverages.” 
He traced the corner of his iPad, a small smile playing on his 
lips. “Send me your slides.” 


“My slides?” 

“For your talk. Pll take a look at them.” 

Olive tried not to gape at him. “Oh—you .. . I’m not your 
grad. You don’t have to.” 

“T know.” 


“You really don’t have to—” 


“I want to,” he said, voice pitched low and even as he 
looked into her eyes, and Olive had to avert her gaze because 
something felt too tight in her chest. 


“Okay.” She finally managed to snap out the loose thread 
on her sleeve. “How likely is it that your feedback will cause 


me to cry under the shower?” 
“That depends on the quality of your slides.” 
She smiled. “Don’t feel like you have to hold back.” 
“Believe me, I don’t.” 


“Good. Great.” She sighed, but it was reassuring, knowing 
that he was going to be checking her work. “Will you come to 
my talk?” she heard herself ask, and was as surprised by the 
request as Adam seemed to be. 


“I... Do you want me to?” 


No. No, its going to be horrible, and humiliating, and 
probably a disaster, and you’re going to see me at my worst 
and weakest. Its probably best if you lock yourself into the 
bathroom for the entire duration of the panel. Just so you dont 
accidentally wander in and see me making a fool of myself. 


And yet. Just the idea of having him there, sitting in the 
audience, made the prospect seem like less of an ordeal. He 
was not her adviser, and he wasn’t going to be able to do much 
if she got inundated by a barrage of impossible questions, or if 
the projector stopped working halfway through the talk. But 
maybe that wasn’t what she needed from him. 


It hit her then what was so special about Adam. That no 
matter his reputation, or how rocky their first meeting, since 
the very beginning, Olive had felt that he was on her side. 
Over and over, and in ways that she could never have 
anticipated, he had made her feel unjudged. Less alone. 


She exhaled slowly. The realization should have been 
rattling, but it had an oddly calming effect. “Yes,” she told 
him, thinking that this might very well turn out to be all right. 
She might never have what she wanted from Adam, but for 
now at least, he was in her life. That was going to have to be 
enough. 


“T will, then.” 


She leaned forward. “Will you ask a long-winded, leading 
question that will cause me to ramble incoherently and lose the 
respect of my peers, thus forever undermining my place in the 
field of biology?” 


“Possibly.” He was smiling. “Should I buy you that 
disgusting’—Adam gestured toward the register—“pumpkin 
sludge now?” 


She grinned. “Oh, yes. I mean, if you want to.” 
“Td rather buy you anything else.” 


“Too bad.” Olive jumped to her feet and headed for the 
counter, tugging at his sleeve and forcing him to stand with 
her. Adam followed meekly, mumbling something about black 
coffee that Olive chose to ignore. 


Enough, she repeated to herself. What you have now, it will 
have to be enough. 


Chapter Fourteen 


ef HYPOTHESIS: This conference will be the worst thing to ever 
happen to my professional career, general well-being, and 
sense of sanity. 


There were two beds in the hotel room. 


Two double beds to be precise, and as she stared at them, 
Olive felt her shoulders sag with relief and had to resist the 
urge to fist-pump. Take that, you stupid rom-coms. She may 
have fallen for the dude she’d begun to fake-date like some 
born-yesterday fool, but at least she wouldn’t be sharing a bed 
with him any time soon. Given her disastrous past couple of 
weeks, she’d really, really needed the win. 


There were a number of little clues that Adam had slept on 
the bed closest to the entrance—a book on the bedside table in 
a language that looked like German, a thumb drive and the 
same iPad she’d seen him carry around on several occasions, 
an iPhone charger dangling from the power outlet. A suitcase 
tucked by the foot of the bed, black and expensive-looking. 
Unlike Olive’s, it probably hadn’t been fished out of the 
Walmart bargain bin. 


“I guess this is mine, then,” she murmured, sitting on the 
bed closest to the window and bouncing a few times to test the 
firmness of the mattress. It was a nice room. Not ridiculously 
fancy, but Olive was suddenly grateful for the way Adam had 
snorted and looked at her like she was crazy when she’d 
offered to pay for half of it. At least the place was wide 
enough that they weren’t going to have to brush up against 
each other every time they moved around. Staying in here with 


him wouldn’t feel like a singularly sadistic version of seven 
minutes in heaven. 


Not that they’d be together much. She was going to give 
her talk in a couple of hours—ugh—then go to the 
department’s social and hang out with her friends until .. . 
well, as long as she feasibly could. Odds were that Adam 
already had tons of meetings scheduled, and maybe they 
wouldn’t even see each other. Olive would be asleep when he 
came back tonight, and tomorrow morning one of them would 
pretend not to wake up while the other got ready. It was going 
to be fine. Harmless. At the very least, not make things worse 
than they currently were. 


Olive’s usual conference outfit was black jeans and her 
least-frayed cardigan, but a few days ago Anh had mentioned 
that the ensemble might be too casual for a talk. After sighing 
for hours Olive had decided to bring the black wrap dress 
she’d bought on sale before interviewing for grad school and 
black pumps borrowed from Anh’s sister. It had seemed like a 
good idea at the time, but as soon as she slipped into the 
bathroom to put on the dress, she realized that it must have 
shrunk the last time she washed it. It didn’t quite hit her knees 
anymore, not by a couple of inches. She groaned and snapped 
a picture for Anh and Malcolm, who texted her, respectively, 
Still conference appropriate and a fire emoji. Olive prayed that 
Anh was right as she combed the waves in her hair and fought 
against dried-out mascara—her fault for buying makeup at the 
dollar store, clearly. 


She had just got out of the bathroom, rehearsing her talk 
under her breath, when the door opened and someone—Adam, 
of course it was Adam—entered the room. He was holding his 
key card and typing something in his phone, but stopped as 
soon as he looked up and noticed Olive. His mouth opened, 
and— 


That was it. It just stayed open. 


“Hey.” Olive forced her face into a smile. Her heart was 
doing something weird in her chest. Beating a little too 
quickly. She should probably have it checked as soon as she 
got back home. One could never be too careful about 
cardiovascular health. “Hi.” 


He snapped his mouth closed and cleared his throat. 
“You’re ...” He swallowed and shifted on his feet. “Here.” 


“Yep.” She nodded, still smiling. “Just arrived. My flight 
landed on time, surprisingly.” 


Adam seemed a little slow. Maybe jet-lagged from his own 
flight, or perhaps last night he’d been out late with his famous 
scientist friends, or with the mysterious woman Holden had 
talked about. He just stared at Olive, silent for several 
moments, and when he spoke, it was only to say, “You 
look...” 


She glanced down at her dress and heels, wondering if her 
eye makeup was already smudged. She’d put it on three whole 
minutes ago, so it was more than likely. “Professional?” 


“That’s not what I...” Adam closed his eyes and shook his 
head, as if collecting himself. “But, yes. You do. How are 
you?” 


“Good. Fine. I mean, I wish I were dead. But aside from 
that.” 


He laughed silently and moved closer. “You'll be okay.” 
She had thought sweaters were a good look for him, but only 
because she’d never seen him wear a blazer. He had a secret 
weapon all along, she thought, trying not to stare too hard. 
And now he s unleashing it. Damn him. 


“Agreed.” She pushed her hair back and smiled. “After I 
die.” 


“You’re fine. You have a script. You memorized it. Your 
slides are good.” 


“I think they were better before you made me change the 
PowerPoint background.” 


“It was acid green.” 
“I know. It made me happy.” 
“It made me nauseous.” 


“Mm. Anyway, thanks again for helping me figure it out.” 
And for answering the 139 questions I asked. Thank you for 
taking less than ten minutes to reply to my emails, every time, 
even when it was 5:30 a.m. and you misspelled “consensus, ” 
which is unusual of you and makes me suspect that maybe you 
were Still half asleep. “And for letting me crash with you.” 


“No problem.” 


She scratched the side of her nose. “I figured you were 
using that bed, so I put my stuff here, but if you . . .” She 
gestured confusedly at the room. 


“No, that’s where I slept last night.” 


“Okay.” She was not counting how many inches there were 
between the two beds. Definitely not. “So how’s the 
conference so far?” 


“Same old. I was mostly at Harvard for a few meetings 
with Tom. I only got back for lunch.” 


Olive’s stomach rumbled loudly at the mention of food. 
“You okay?” 

“Yeah. I think I forgot to eat today.” 

His eyebrows arched. “I didn’t think you capable.” 


“Hey!” She glared at him. “The sustained levels of despair 
I’ve been engaging in for the past week require a staggering 
number of calories, in case you— What are you doing?” 


Adam was leaning over his suitcase, rummaging for 
something that he held out to Olive. 


“What is it?” 
“Calories. To fuel your despair habits.” 


“Oh.” She accepted it and then studied the protein bar in 
her hands, trying not to burst out crying. It was just food. 
Probably a snack he’d brought for the plane ride and ended up 
not eating. He didn’t need to despair, after all. He was Dr. 
Adam Carlsen. “Thanks. Are you. . .” The wrapping of the bar 
crinkled as she shifted it from one hand to another. “Are you 
still coming to my talk?” 


“Of course. When is it exactly?” 


“Today at four, room 278. Session three-b. The good news 
is that it partially overlaps with the keynote address, which 
means that hopefully only a handful of people will show 


99 


up... 
His spine stiffened noticeably. Olive hesitated. 
“Unless you were planning to go to the keynote address?” 


Adam wet his lips. “I... 


Her eyes chose that precise moment to fall to the 
conference badge dangling from his neck. 


Adam Carlsen, Ph.D. 
Stanford University 


Keynote Speaker 


Her jaw dropped. 


“Oh my God.” She looked up at him, wide-eyed, and... 
Oh God. At least he had the grace to look sheepish. “How did 
you not tell me that you are the keynote speaker?” 


Adam scratched his jaw, oozing discomfort. “I didn’t think 
of it.” 


“Oh my God,” she repeated. 


To be fair, it was on her. The name of the keynote speaker 
was likely printed in font size 300 in the program, and all the 
promotional material, not to mention the conference app and 
the emails. Olive must have had her head very much up her 
butt to fail to notice. 


“Adam.” She made to rub her eyes with her fingers, and 
then thought better of it. Damn makeup. “I can’t be fake- 
dating SBD’s keynote speaker.” 


“Well, there are technically three keynote speakers, and the 
other two are married women in their fifties who live in 
Europe and Japan, so—” 


Olive crossed her arms on her chest and gave him a flat 
look until he quieted. She couldn’t help laughing. “How did 
this not come up?” 


“It’s not a big deal.” He shrugged. “I doubt I was their first 
choice.” 


“Right.” Sure. Because a person existed who’d refuse to be 
keynote speaker at SBD. She tilted her head. “Did you think I 
was an idiot, when I started complaining about my ten-minute 
talk that will be attended by fourteen and a half people?” 


“Not at all. Your reaction was understandable.” He thought 
about it for a moment. “I do sometimes think you’re an idiot, 
mostly when I see you put ketchup and cream cheese on 
bagels.” 


“It’s a great mix.” 


He looked pained. “When are you presenting in your 
panel? Maybe I can still make it.” 


“No. Pm exactly halfway through.” She waved a hand, 
hoping to seem unconcerned. “It’s fine, really.” And it was. 
“I’m going to have to record myself with my iPhone, anyway.” 


She rolled her eyes. “For Dr. Aslan. She couldn’t come to the 
conference, but she said she wants to listen to my first talk. I 
can send it to you, if you’re a fan of stammering and 
secondhand embarrassment.” 


“Pd like that.” 


Olive flushed and changed the topic. “Is that why you have 
a room for the entire length of the conference even though 
you’re not staying? Because you’re a big shot?” 


He frowned. “I’m not.” 
“Can I call you ‘big shot’ from now on?” 


He sighed, walking to the bedside table and pocketing the 
USB  she’d noticed earlier. “I have to take my slides 
downstairs, smart-ass.” 


“Okay.” He could leave. It was fine. Totally fine. Olive 
didn’t let her smile falter. “I guess P11 maybe see you after my 
talk, then?” 


“Of course.” 


“And after yours. Good luck. And congrats. It’s such a 
huge honor.” 


Adam didn’t seem to be thinking about that, though. He 
lingered by the door, his hand on the knob as he looked back at 
Olive. Their eyes held for a few moments before he told her, 
“Don’t be nervous, okay?” 


She pressed her lips together and nodded. “PII just do what 
Dr. Aslan always says.” 


“And what’s that?” 


“Carry myself with the confidence of a mediocre white 


29 


man. 


He grinned, and—there they were. The heart-stopping 
dimples. “It will be fine, Olive.” His smile softened. “And if 


not, at least it will be over.” 


It wasn’t until a few minutes later, when she was sitting on 
her bed staring at the Boston skyline and chewing on her 
lunch, that Olive realized that the protein bar Adam had given 
her was covered in chocolate. 


SHE CHECKED WHETHER she had the correct room for the third 
time—nothing like talking about pancreatic cancer to a crowd 
that expected a presentation on the Golgi apparatus to make an 
impression—and then felt a hand close around her shoulder. 
She spun around, noticed who it belonged to, and immediately 
grinned. 


“Tom!” 


He was wearing a charcoal suit. His blond hair was combed 
back, making him look older than he had in California, but 
also professional. He was a friendly face in a sea of unfamiliar 
ones, and his presence took the edge off her intense desire to 
puke in her own shoe. 


“Hey, Olive.” He held the door open for her. “I thought I 
might see you here.” 


“Oh?” 


“From the conference program.” He looked at her oddly. 
“You didn’t notice we’re on the same panel?” 


Oh, crap. “Uh—I . . . I didn’t even read who else was on 
the panel.” Because I was too busy panicking. 


“No worries. It’s mostly boring people.” He winked, and 
his hand slid to her back, guiding her toward the podium. 
“Except for you and me, of course.” 


Her talk didn’t go poorly. 


It didn’t go perfectly, either. She stumbled on the word 
“channelrhodopsin” twice, and by some weird trick of the 
projector her staining looked more like a black blob than a 
slice. “It looks different on my computer,’ Olive told the 
audience with a strained smile. “Just trust me on this one.” 


People chuckled, and she relaxed marginally, grateful that 
she’d spent hours upon hours memorizing everything she was 
supposed to say. The room was not as full as she’d feared, and 
there were a handful of people—lkely working on similar 
projects at other institutions—who took notes and listened 
raptly to her every word. It should have been overwhelming 
and anxiety inducing, but about halfway through she realized 
that it made her oddly giddy, knowing that someone else was 
passionate about the same research questions that had taken up 
most of the past two years of her life. 


In the second row, Malcolm faked a fascinated expression, 
while Anh, Jeremy, and a bunch of other grads from Stanford 
nodded enthusiastically whenever Olive happened to look in 
their direction. Tom alternated between staring intensely at her 
and checking his phone with a bored expression—fair, since 
he’d already read her report. The session was running late, and 
the moderator ended up giving her time for only one question 
—an easy one. At the end, two of the other panelists—well- 
known cancer researchers whom Olive had to restrain herself 
not to fangirl over—shook her hand and asked her several 
questions about her work. She was simultaneously flustered 
and overjoyed. 


“You were so amazing,” Anh told her when it was over, 
pushing up to hug her. “Also, you look hot and professional, 
and while you were talking, I had a vision of your future in 
academia.” 


Olive wrapped her arms around Anh. “What vision?” 


“You were a high-powered researcher, surrounded by 
students who hung on your every word. And you were 
answering a multiparagraph email with an uncapitalized no.” 


“Nice. Was I happy?” 
“Of course not.” Anh snorted. “It’s academia.” 


“Ladies, the department social starts in half an hour.” 
Malcolm leaned in to kiss Olive on the cheek and squeeze her 
waist. When she was wearing heels, he was just a tiny bit 
shorter than her. She definitely wanted a picture of the two of 
them side by side. “We should go celebrate the single time 
Olive managed to pronounce ‘channelrhodopsin’ right with 
some free booze.” 


“You dick.” 


He pulled her in for a tight hug and whispered in her ear, 
“You did amazing, Kalamata.” And then, louder: “Let’s go get 
wasted!” 


“Why don’t you guys go ahead? Ill get my USB and put 
my stuff back in the hotel.” 


Olive made her way through the now-empty room to the 
podium, feeling like a huge weight had been lifted off her 
shoulders. She was relaxed and relieved. Professionally, things 
were starting to look up: as it turned out, with adequate 
preparation she could actually string together several coherent 
sentences in front of other scientists. She also had the means to 
carry out her research next year, and two big names in her 
field had just complimented her work. She smiled, letting her 
mind wander to whether she should text Adam to tell him that 
he was right, she did make it out alive; she should probably 
ask how his keynote address had gone, too. If his PowerPoint 
had acted up and he’d mispronounced words like 
“microarrays” or “karyotyping,” whether he planned to go to 
the department social. He was probably meeting up with 


friends, but maybe she could buy him a thank-you drink for all 
his help. She would even pay, for once. 


“It went well,” someone said. 


Olive turned to find Tom standing behind her, arms folded 
across his chest as he leaned against the table. He looked as 
though he’d been staring at her for a while. “Thank you. 
Yours, too.” His talk had been a more condensed repeat of the 
one he’d given at Stanford, and Olive had to admit that she’d 
spaced out a bit. 


“Where’s Adam?” he asked. 
“Still giving his keynote, I think.” 


“Right.” Tom rolled his eyes. Probably with fondness, 
though Olive didn’t quite catch it in his expression. “He does 
that, doesn’t he?” 


“Does what?” 


“Outdoes you.” He pushed away from the table, ambling 
closer. “Well, outdoes everyone. It’s not personal.” She 
frowned, confused, wanting to ask Tom what he meant by that, 
but he continued, “I think you and I will get along great next 
year.” 


The reminder that Tom believed in her work enough to take 
her in his lab quashed her discomfort. “We will.” She smiled. 
“Thank you so much for giving me and my project a chance. I 
can’t wait to start working with you.” 


“You’re welcome.” He was smiling, too. “I think there are 
a lot of things we can gain from each other. Wouldn’t you 
agree?” 


It seemed to Olive like she had much more to gain from it 
than he did, but she nodded anyway. “I hope so. I think 
imaging and blood biomarkers complement each other 
perfectly, and only by combining them can we—” 


“And I have what you need, don’t I? The research funds. 
The lab space. The time and ability to mentor you properly.” 


“Yes. You do. I...” 


All of a sudden, she could pick out the gray rim of his 
cornea. Had he gotten closer? He was tall, but not that much 
taller than her. He didn’t usually feel this imposing. 


“T’m grateful. So grateful. I’m sure that—” 


She felt his unfamiliar smell in her nostrils, and his breath, 
hot and unpleasant against the corner of her mouth, and— 
fingers, a vise-tight grip around her upper arm, and why was 
he—what was he— 


“What—” Heart in her throat, Olive freed her arm and took 
several steps back. “What are you doing?” Her hand came up 
to her biceps and—it hurt, where he’d clasped her. 


God—had he really done that? Tried to kiss her? No, she 
must have imagined it. She must be going crazy, because Tom 
would never— 


“A preview, I think.” 


She just stared at him, too stunned and numb to react, until 
he moved closer and bent once more toward her. Then it was 
happening all over again. 


She pushed him away. As forcefully as she could, she 
pushed him away with both her hands on his chest, until he 
stumbled back with a cruel, condescending laugh. Abruptly, 
her lungs seized and she couldn’t breathe. 


“A preview of—what? Are you out of your mind?” 
“Come on.” 


Why was he smiling? Why was that oily, hateful 
expression on his face? Why was he looking at her like— 


“A pretty girl like you should know the score by now.” He 
looked at her from head to toe, and the lewd gleam in his eyes 
made her feel disgusting. “Don’t lie to me and say you didn’t 
pick out a dress that short for my benefit. Nice legs, by the 
way. I can see why Adam’s wasting his time with you.” 


“The— What are you—” 


“Olive.” He sighed, putting his hands in his pockets. He 
should have looked nonthreatening, lounging like that. But he 
felt like anything but. “You don’t think I accepted you into my 
lab because you are good, do you?” 


Slack-jawed, she took one more step back. One of her heels 
almost caught in the carpet, and she had to hold on to the table 
to avoid falling. 


“A girl like you. Who figured out so early in her academic 
career that fucking well-known, successful scholars is how to 
get ahead.” He was still smiling. The same smile Olive had 
once thought kind. Reassuring. “You fucked Adam, didn’t 
you? We both know you’re going to fuck me for the same 
reason.” 


She was going to vomit. She was going to vomit in this 
room, after all, and it had nothing to do with her talk. “You are 
disgusting.” 


“Am I?” He shrugged, unperturbed. “That makes two of us. 
You used Adam to get to me and to my lab. To this conference, 
too.” 


“I didn’t. I didn’t even know Adam when I submitted—” 


“Oh, please. You’re telling me you thought your pitiful 
abstract was selected for a talk because of its quality and 
scientific importance?” He made a disbelieving face. 
“Someone here has a very high opinion of herself, considering 
that her research is useless and derivative and that she can 
barely put together two words without stuttering like an idiot.” 


She froze. Her stomach sank and twisted, her feet cemented 
to the ground. “It’s not true,” she whispered. 


“No? You think it’s not true that scientists in the field want 
to impress the great Adam Carlsen enough to kiss the ass of 
whoever he’s fucking at the moment? I certainly did when I 
told his very mediocre girlfriend that she could come work for 
me. But maybe you’re right,” he said, all mocking affability. 
“Maybe you know STEM academia better than I do.” 


“T’m going to tell Adam about this. I’m going to—” 


“By all means.” Tom widened his arms. “Go ahead. Be my 
guest. Do you need to borrow my phone?” 


“No.” Her nostrils flared. A wave of icy anger swept over 
her. “No.” She turned around and marched to the entrance, 
fighting the nausea and bile climbing up her throat. She was 
going to find Adam. She was going to find the conference 
organizers and report Tom. She was never going to see his face 
again. 


“Quick question. Who do you think Adam will believe, 
Olive?” 


She halted abruptly, just a few feet from the door. 


“Some bitch he’s been fucking for about two weeks, or 
someone who’s been a close friend for years? Someone who 
helped him get the most important grant of his career? 
Someone who’s had his back since he was younger than you 
are? Someone who’s actually a good scientist?” 


She spun around, shaking with rage. “Why are you doing 
this?” 


“Because I can.” Tom shrugged again. “Because as 
advantageous as my collaboration with Adam has been, 
sometimes it’s a bit annoying how he needs to be best at 
everything, and I like the idea of taking something away from 
him for once. Because you are very pretty, and I look forward 


to spending more time with you next year. Who would have 
guessed that Adam had such good taste?” 


“You are crazy. If you think that lIl work in your lab, you 
are—" 


“Oh, Olive. But you will. Because you see—while your 
work is not particularly brilliant, it does complement nicely 
the ongoing projects in my lab.” 


She let out a single, bitter laugh. “Are you really so 
deluded that you think I would ever collaborate with you after 
this?” 


“Mmm. It’s more that you don’t have a choice. Because if 
you want to finish your project, my lab is your only 
opportunity. And if you don’t . . . well. You sent me 
information on all your protocols, which means that I can 
easily replicate them. But don’t worry. Maybe Ill mention you 
in the acknowledgment section.” 


She felt the ground flip under her feet. “You wouldn’t,” she 
whispered. “It’s research misconduct.” 


“Listen, Olive. My friendly advice is: suck it up. Keep 
Adam happy and interested as long as possible, and then come 
to my lab to finally do some decent work. If you keep me 
happy, I'll make sure you can save the world from pancreatic 
cancer. Your nice little sob story about your mom or your aunt 
or your stupid kindergarten teacher dying from it is only going 
to get you so far. You’re mediocre.” 


Olive turned around and ran from the room. 


WHEN SHE HEARD the beep of the key card, she immediately 
wiped her face with the sleeves of her dress. It didn’t quite do 
the trick: she’d been crying for a solid twenty minutes, and 


even an entire paper towel roll wouldn’t have been enough to 
hide what she’d been up to. Really, though, it wasn’t Olive’s 
fault. She’d been sure Adam had to attend the opening 
ceremony, or at least the department social after his talk. 
Wasn’t he on the social-and-networking committee? He should 
have been elsewhere. Socializing. Networking. Committeeing. 


But here he was. Olive heard steps as he walked inside, 
then him stopping at the entrance of the bedroom, and... 


She couldn’t convince her eyes to meet his. She was a mess 
after all, a miserable, disastrous mess. But she should at least 
attempt to divert Adam’s attention. Maybe by saying 
something. Anything. 


“Hey.” She tried a smile, but continued to stare down at her 
own hands. “How did your address go?” 


“What happened?” His voice was calm, pitched low. 


“Did you only just finish?” Her smile was holding. Good. 
Good, that was good. “How was the Q and A—” 


“What happened?” 
“Nothing. I...” 


She didn’t manage to finish the sentence. And the smile— 
which, if she was honest with herself, hadn’t been much of a 
smile to begin with—was crumbling. Olive heard Adam come 
closer but didn’t look at him. Her closed eyelids were all that 
was keeping the floodgates shut, and they weren’t doing a 
good job of it, either. 


She startled when she found him kneeling in front of her. 
Right by her chair, his head level with hers, studying her with 
a worried frown. She made to hide her face in her palms, but 
his hand came up to her chin and lifted it up, until she had no 
choice but to meet his eyes. Then his fingers slid up to her 
cheek, cupping it as he asked, yet again, “Olive. What 
happened?” 


“Nothing.” Her voice shook. It kept disappearing 
somewhere, melting in the tears. 


“Olive.” 
“Really. Nothing.” 


Adam stared at her, questioning, and didn’t let go. “Did 
someone buy the last bag of chips?” 


A laugh bubbled out of her, wet and not wholly under her 
control. “Yes. Was it you?” 


“Of course.” His thumb swiped across her cheekbone, 
stopping a falling tear. “I bought all of them.” 


This smile felt better than the one she’d cobbled together 
earlier. “I hope you have good health insurance, because 
you’re so getting type 2 diabetes.” 


“Worth it.” 


“You monster.” She must have been leaning into his hand, 
because his thumb was stroking her again. Ever so gently. 


“Is that how you talk to your fake boyfriend?” He looked 
so worried. His eyes, the line of his mouth. And yet—so 
patient. “What happened, Olive?” 


She shook her head. “I just...” 


She couldn’t tell him. And she couldn’t not tell him. But 
above all, she couldn’t tell him. 


Who do you think Adam will believe, Olive? 


She had to take a deep breath. Push Tom’s voice out of her 
head and calm herself before continuing. Come up with 
something to say, something that wouldn’t make the sky fall in 
this hotel room. 


“My talk. I thought it went okay. My friends said it did. But 
then I heard people talking about it, and they said...” Adam 


really should stop touching her. She must be getting his whole 
hand wet. The sleeve of his blazer, too. 


“What did they say?” 


“Nothing. That it was derivative. Boring. That I 
stammered. They knew that lm your girlfriend and said that 
was the only reason I was chosen to give a talk.” She shook 
her head. She needed to let it go. To put it out of her head. To 
think carefully about what to do. 


“Who? Who were they?” 

Oh, Adam. “Someone. I’m not sure.” 
“Did you see their badges?” 

“I... didn’t pay attention.” 


“Were they on your panel?” There was something 
underneath his tone. Something pressing that hinted at 
violence and rage and broken bones. Adam’s hand was still 
gentle on her cheek, but his eyes narrowed. There was a new 
tension in his jaw, and Olive felt a shiver run down her spine. 


“No,” she lied. “It doesn’t matter. It’s okay.” 


His lips pressed into a straight line, his nostrils flared, so 
she added, “I don’t care what people think of me, anyway.” 


“Right,” he scoffed. 


This Adam, right here, was the moody, irascible Adam who 
grads in her program complained about. Olive shouldn’t have 
been surprised to see him this angry, but he’d never been like 
this with her before. 


“No, really, I don’t care what people say—” 


“I know you don’t. But that’s the problem, isn’t it?” He 
stared at her, and he was so close. She could see how the 
yellows and greens mixed into the clear brown of his eyes. 


“It’s not what they say. It’s what you think. It’s that you think 
they’re right. Don’t you?” 


99 


Her mouth was full of cotton. “I... 


“Olive. You are a great scientist. And you will become an 
even better one.” The way he was looking at her, so earnest 
and serious—it was going to break her. “Whatever this asshole 
said, it speaks nothing of you and a whole lot of them.” His 
fingers shifted on her skin to weave through the hair behind 
her ear. “Your work is brilliant.” 


She didn’t even think it through. And even if she had, she 
probably couldn’t have stopped herself. She just leaned 
forward and hid her face in his neck, hugging him tight. A 
terrible idea, stupid and inappropriate, and Adam was surely 
going to push her away, any minute now, except that... 


His palm slid to her nape, almost as if to press her into him, 
and Olive just stayed there for long minutes, crying warm tears 
into the flesh of his throat, feeling how grounding, how warm, 
how solid he was—under her fingers and in her life. 


You just had to go and make me fall for you, she thought, 
blinking against his skin. You absolute ass. 


He didn’t let her go. Not until she pulled back and wiped 
her cheeks again, feeling like maybe this time around she’d be 
able to hold it together. She sniffled, and he leaned over to 
grab a box of tissues from the TV table. “I really am fine.” 


He sighed. 


“Okay, maybe . . . maybe I’m not fine right now, but I will 
be.” She accepted the tissue that he plucked for her and blew 
her nose. “I just need a while to...” 


He studied her and nodded, his eyes unreadable again. 


“Thank you. For what you said. For letting me snot all over 
your hotel room.” 


He smiled. “Anytime.” 


“And your jacket, too. Are you... Are you going to the 
department social?” she asked, dreading the moment she 
would have to get out of this chair. Of this room. Be honest, 
that sensible, ever-knowing voice inside her whispered. /ts his 
presence that you don t want to be out of. 


“Are you?” 


She shrugged. “I said I would. But I don’t feel like talking 
to anyone right now.” She dried her cheeks once more, but 
miraculously the flow had stopped. Adam Carlsen, responsible 
for 90 percent of the department’s tears, had actually managed 
to make someone stop crying. Who would’ve thought? 
“Though I feel like the free alcohol could really help.” 


He stared at her pensively for a moment, biting the inside 
of his cheek. Then he nodded, seeming to reach some sort of 
decision, and stood with his hand held out to her. “Come on.” 


“Oh.” She had to crane her neck to look up at him. “I think 
I’m going to wait a bit before I” 


“We’re not going to the social.” 
We? “What?” 


“Come on,” he repeated, and this time Olive took his hand 
and didn’t let go. She couldn’t, with the way his fingers were 
closing around hers. Adam looked pointedly at her shoes, until 
she got the hint and slipped them on, using his arm to keep her 
balance. 


“Where are we going?” 


“To get some free alcohol. Well’—he amended—“‘free for 


99 


you. 


She almost gasped when she realized what he meant. “No, 
I—Adam, no. You have to go to the department social. And to 
the opening ceremony. You’re the keynote speaker!” 


“And I keynote-spoke.” He grabbed her red duffle coat 
from the bed and pulled her toward the entrance. “Can you 
walk in those shoes?” 


“I—yes, but—” 
“I have my key card; we don’t need yours.” 


“Adam.” She grabbed his wrist, and he immediately turned 
to look at her. “Adam, you can’t skip those events. People will 
say that you—” 


His smile was lopsided. “That I want to spend time with 
my girlfriend?” 


Olive’s brain stopped. Just like that. And then it started 
again, and— 


The world was a little different. 


When he tugged her hand again, she smiled and simply 
followed him out of the room. 


Chapter Fifteen 


ef HYPOTHESIS: There is no moment in life that cannot be 
improved by food delivered by conveyor belt. 


Everyone saw them. 


People whom Olive had never met before, people whom 
she recognized from blog posts and science Twitter, people 
from her department who’d been her teachers in previous 
years. People who smiled at Adam, who addressed him by his 
first name or as Dr. Carlsen, who told him “Great talk” or “See 
you around.” People who completely ignored Olive, and 
people who studied her curiously—her, and Adam, and the 
place where their hands were joined. 


Adam mostly nodded back, only stopping to chat with 
Holden. 


“You guys skipping the boring shit?” he asked with a 
knowing smile. 


“Yep.” 

“PII make sure to drink your booze, then. And to extend 
your apologies.” 

“No need.” 


“PI just say you had a family emergency.” Holden winked. 
“Perhaps future-family emergency, how does that sound?” 


Adam rolled his eyes and pulled Olive outside. She had to 
hurry to keep up with him, not because he was walking 
particularly fast, but because his legs were so long, one of his 
strides was worth about three of hers. 


“Um... I’m wearing heels, here.” 


He turned to her, his eyes traveling down her legs and then 
rapidly moving away. “I know. You’re less vertically 
challenged than usual.” 


Her eyes narrowed. “Hey, I’m five-eight. That’s actually 
pretty tall.” 


“Hm.” Adam’s expression was noncommittal. 
“What’s that face?” 

“What face?” 

“Your face.” 

“Just my regular face?” 

“No, that’s your ‘you’re not tall’ face.” 


He smiled, just a smidge. “Are the shoes okay for walking? 
Should we go back?” 


“They’re fine, but can we slow down?” 


He feigned a sigh, but he did. His hand let go of hers and 
pushed against her lower back to steer her to the right. She had 
to hide a small shiver. 


“So...” She stuffed her fists in the pockets of her coat, 
trying to ignore how the tips of her fingers were still tingling. 
“Those free drinks you mentioned? Do they come with food?” 


“PIL get you dinner.” Adam’s lips curved a little more. 
“You're not a cheap date, though.” 


She leaned into his side and bumped her shoulder against 
his biceps. It was hard not to notice that there was no give. “I 
really am not. I fully plan to eat and drink my feelings.” 


His smile was more uneven than ever. “Where do you want 
to go, smart-ass?” 


“Let’s see . .. What do you like? Aside from tap water and 
hard-boiled spinach?” 


He gave her a dirty side-look. “How about burgers?” 
“Meh.” She shrugged. “I guess. If there’s nothing else.” 
“What’s wrong with burgers?” 

“I don’t know. They taste like foot.” 

“They what?” 

“What about Mexican? Do you like Mexican?” 
“Burgers don’t taste like—” 


“Or Italian? Pizza would be great. And maybe there’s 
something celery-based that you could order.” 


“Burgers it is.” 
Olive laughed. “What about Chinese?” 
“Had it for lunch.” 


“Well, people in China have Chinese food multiple times a 
day, so you shouldn’t let that stop you from— Oh.” 


It took Adam two whole steps to realize that Olive had 
stopped in the middle of the sidewalk. He whirled around to 
look at her. “What?” 


“There.” She pointed to the red-and-white sign across the 
road. 


Adam’s gaze followed, and for a long moment he simply 
stared, blinking several times. And then: “No.” 


“There,” she repeated, feeling her cheeks widen into a grin. 


“Olive.” There was a deep vertical line between his 
eyebrows. “No. There are way better restaurants we can—” 


“But I want to go to that one.” 


“Why? There’s—” 


She moved closer to him and grasped the sleeve of his 
blazer. “Please. Please?” 


Adam pinched his nose, sighed, and pursed his lips. But not 
five seconds later he put his hand between her shoulder blades 
to guide her across the street. 


THE PROBLEM, HE explained in hushed tones as they waited to be 
seated, was not the sushi train, but the all-you-can-eat for 
twenty dollars. 


“It’s never a good sign,” he told her, but his voice sounded 
more resigned than combative, and when the server ushered 
them inside, he followed her meekly to the booth. Olive 
marveled at the plates traveling on the conveyor belt weaving 
across the restaurant, unable to stop her openmouthed grin. 
When she remembered Adam’s presence and turned her 
attention back to him, he was staring at her with an expression 
halfway between exasperated and indulgent. 


“You know,” he told her, eyeing a seaweed salad passing 
by his shoulder, “we could go to a real Japanese restaurant. I 
am very happy to pay for however much sushi you want to 
eat.” 


“But will it move around me?” 


He shook his head. “I take it back: you are a disturbingly 
cheap date.” 


She ignored him and lifted the glass door, grabbing a roll 
and a chocolate doughnut. Adam muttered something that 
sounded a lot like “very authentic,” and when the waitress 
stopped by he ordered them both a beer. 


“What do you think this is?” Olive dipped a piece of sushi 
in her soy sauce. “Tuna or salmon?” 


“Probably spider meat.” 
She popped it into her mouth. “Delicious.” 
“Really.” He looked skeptical. 


It wasn’t, in all truth. But it was okay. And this, well, this 
was so much fun. Exactly what she needed to empty her mind 
of... everything. Everything but here and now. With Adam. 


“Yep.” She pushed the remaining piece toward him, 
silently daring him to try it. 

He broke apart his chopsticks with a long-suffering 
expression and picked it up, chewing for a long time. 


“It tastes like foot.” 


“No way. Here.” She grabbed a bowl of edamame from the 
belt. “You can have this. It’s basically broccoli.” 


He brought one to his mouth, managing to look like he 
didn’t hate it. “We don’t have to talk, by the way.” 


Olive tilted her head. 


“You said you didn’t want to talk to anyone back at the 
hotel. So we don’t have to, if you’d rather eat this’—he 
glanced at the plates she had accumulated with obvious 
distrust—“‘food in silence.” 


You’re not just anyone, seemed like a dangerous thing to 
say, so She smiled. “I bet you’re great at silences.” 


“Ts that a dare?” 


She shook her head. “I want to talk. Just, can we not talk 
about the conference? Or science? Or the fact that the world is 
full of assholes?” And that some of them are your close friends 
and collaborators? 


His hand closed into a fist on the table, jaw clenched tight 
as he nodded. 


“Awesome. We could chat about how nice this place is—” 


“It’s appalling.” 


(74 


or the taste of the sushi—” 


“Foot.” 


(79 


or the best movie in the Fast and Furious franchise—” 


“Fast Five. Though I have a feeling you’re going to say—” 
“Tokyo Drift.” 


“Right.” He sighed, and they exchanged a small smile. And 
then, then the smile faded and they just stared at each other, 
something thick and sweet coloring the air between them, 
magnetic and just the right side of bearable. Olive had to rip 
her gaze from his, because—no. No. 


She turned away, and her eyes fell on a couple at a table a 
few feet to their right. They were the mirror image of Adam 
and Olive, sitting on each side of their booth, all warm glances 
and tentative smiles. “Do you think they’re on a fake date?” 
she asked, leaning back against her seat. 


Adam followed her gaze to the couple. “I thought those 
mostly involved coffee shops and sunscreen applications?” 


“Nah. Only the best ones.” 


He laughed silently. “Well.” He focused on the table, and 
on angling his chopsticks so that they were parallel to each 
other. “I can definitely recommend it.” 


Olive dipped her chin to hide a smile and then leaned 
forward to steal one edamame. 


IN THE ELEVATOR she held on to his biceps and took off her 
heels, failing disastrously at being graceful as he studied her 


and shook his head. “I thought you said they didn’t hurt?” He 
sounded curious. Amused? Fond? 


“That was ages ago.” Olive picked them up and let them 
dangle from her fingers. When she straightened, Adam was 
again impossibly tall. “Now I am very ready to chop off my 
feet.” 


The elevator pinged, and the doors opened. “That seems 
counterproductive.” 


“Oh, you have no idea— Hey, what are you—?” 


Her heart skipped what felt like a dozen beats when Adam 
swept her up into a full bridal carry. She yelped, and he carried 
her to their room, all because she had a blister on her pinkie 
toe. Without much of a choice, she closed her arms around his 
neck and sank against him, trying to make sure she’d survive 
if he decided to drop her. His hands were warm around her 
back and knee, forearms tight and strong. 


He smelled amazing. He felt even better. 

“You know, the room’s only twenty meters away—” 
“I have no idea what that means.” 

“Adam.” 

“We Americans think in feet, Canada.” 

“T’m too heavy.” 


“You really are.” The ease with which he shifted her in his 
arms to slide the key card belied his words. “You should cut 
pumpkin-flavored drinks from your diet.” 


She pulled his hair and smiled into his shoulder. “Never.” 


Their name tags were still on the TV table, exactly where 
they’d left them, and there was a conference program half- 
open on Adam’s bed, not to mention tote bags and a mountain 
of useless flyers. Olive noticed them immediately, and it was 


like having a thousand little splinters pressed deep into a fresh 
wound. It brought back every single word Tom had said to her, 
all his lies and his truths and his mocking insults, and... 


Adam must have known. As soon as he put her down, he 
gathered everything that was conference related and stuck it on 
a chair facing the windows, where it was hidden from their 
sight, and Olive .. . She could have hugged him. She wasn’t 
going to—she already had, twice today—but she really could 
have. Instead she resolutely pushed all those little splinters out 
of her mind, plopped herself down on her bed belly up, and 
stared at the ceiling. 


She’d thought it would be awkward, being with him in 
such a small space for a whole night. And it was a little bit, or 
at least it had been when she’d first arrived earlier today, but 
now she felt calm and safe. Like her world, constantly hectic 
and messy and demanding, was slowing down. Easing up, just 
a bit. 


The bedcover rustled under her head when she turned to 
look at Adam. He seemed relaxed, too, as he draped his jacket 
against the back of a chair, then took off his watch and set it 
neatly on the desk. The casual domesticity of it—the thought 
that his day and hers would end in the same place, at the same 
time—soothed her like a slow caress down her spine. 


“Thank you. For buying me food.” 


He glanced at her, crinkling his nose. “I don’t know that 
there was any food involved.” 


She smiled, rolling to her side. “You’re not going out 
again?” 


“Out?” 


“Yeah. To meet other very important science people? Eat 
another seven pounds of edamame?” 


“I think I’ve had enough networking and edamame for this 
decade.” He took off his shoes and socks, and set them neatly 
by the bed. 


“You're staying in, then?” 


He paused and looked at her. “Unless you’d rather be 
alone?” 


No, I would not. She propped herself up on her elbow. 
“Let’s watch a movie.” 


Adam blinked at her. “Sure.” He sounded surprised but not 
displeased. “But if your taste in movies is anything like your 
taste in restaurants, itll probably—” 


He didn’t see the pillow coming at him. It bounced off his 
face and then fell to the floor, making Olive giggle and spring 
off the bed. “You mind if I shower, before?” 


“You smart-ass.” 


She started rummaging through her suitcase. “You can pick 
the movie! I don’t care which one, as long as there are no 
scenes in which horses are killed, because it— Crap.” 


“What?” 


“I forgot my pajamas.” She looked for her phone in the 
pockets of her coat. It wasn’t there, and she realized that she 
hadn’t brought it with her to the restaurant. “Have you seen 
my— Oh, there it is.” 


The battery was almost dead, probably because she had 
forgotten to turn off the recording after her talk. She hadn’t 
checked her messages in a few hours, and found several 
unread texts—mostly from Anh and Malcolm, asking her 
where she was and if she still planned to come to the social, 
telling her to get her ass there ASAP because “the booze is 
flowing like a river,” and then, finally, just informing her that 
they were all going downtown to a bar. Anh must have been 


well on her way to wasted by that point, because her last 
message read: Clallif u want tp join ¥ us, Olvie 


“I forgot my pajamas and wanted to see if I could borrow 
something from my friends, but I don’t think they’Il be back 
for hours. Though maybe Jess didn’t go with them, let me text 
and see if—” 


“Here.” Adam set something black and neatly folded on 
her bed. “You can use this if you want.” 


She studied it skeptically. “What is it?” 


“A T-shirt. I slept in it yesterday, but it’s probably better 
than the dress you’re wearing. To sleep in, I mean,” he added, 
a faint flush on his cheeks. 


“Oh.” She picked it up, and the T-shirt unfolded. She 
immediately noticed three things: it was large, so large that it 
would hit her mid-thigh or even lower; it smelled heavenly, a 
mix of Adam’s skin and laundry detergent that had her 
wanting to bury her face in it and inhale for weeks; and on the 
front, it said in big, white letters . . . 


“ “Biology Ninja’?” 

Adam scratched the back of his neck. “I didn’t buy it.” 

“Did you . . . steal it?” 

“It was a present.” 

“Well.” She grinned. “This is one hell of a present. Doctor 
ninja.” 

He stared at her flatly. “If you tell anyone, Pll deny it.” 


She chuckled. “Are you sure it’s okay? What will you 
wear?” 


“Nothing.” 


She must have been gaping at him a little too much, 
because he gave her an amused look and shook his head. 


“Pm kidding. I have a tee under my shirt.” 


She nodded and hurried into the bathroom, making a point 
not to meet his eyes. 


Alone under the hot jet of the shower it was much harder to 
concentrate on stale sushi and Adam’s uneven smile, and to 
forget why he’d ended up allowing her to cling to him for 
three whole hours. What Tom had done to her today was 
despicable, and she was going to have to report him. She was 
going to have to tell Adam. She was going to have to do 
something. But every time she tried to think about it rationally, 
she could hear his voice in her head—mediocre and nice legs 
and useless and derivative and little sob story—so loud that 
she was afraid her skull would shatter into pieces. 


So she kept her shower as quick as possible, distracting 
herself by reading the labels of Adam’s shampoo and body 
wash (something hypoallergenic and pH-balanced that had her 
rolling her eyes) and drying herself as fast as humanly 
possible. She took out her contacts, then stole a bit of his 
toothpaste. Her gaze fell on his toothbrush; it was charcoal 
black, down to the bristles, and she couldn’t help but giggle. 


When she stepped out of the bathroom, he was sitting on 
the edge of the bed, wearing plaid pajama pants and a white T- 
shirt. He was holding the TV remote in one hand and his 
phone in the other, looking between the two screens with a 
frown. 


“You would.” 
“Would what?” he asked absentmindedly. 
“Have a black toothbrush.” 


His mouth twitched. “You will be shocked to hear that 
there is no Netflix category for movies in which horses don’t 
die.” 


“An obscenity, isn’t it? It’s much needed.” She crumpled 
her too-short dress into a ball and stuffed it inside her bag, 
fantasizing that she was stuffing Tom’s throat. “If I were 
American, I’d totally run for Congress on that platform.” 


“Should we fake-marry, so you can get citizenship?” 


Her heart stumbled. “Oh, yes. I think it’s time we fake- 
move-to-the-next-level.” 


“So”—he tapped at his phone—“I’m just googling ‘dead 
horse,’ plus the title of whatever movie sounds good.” 


“That’s what I usually do.” She padded across the room 
until she was standing next to him. “What do you have?” 


“This one’s about a linguistics professor who’s asked to 
help decipher an alien—” 


He glanced up from his phone, and immediately fell silent. 
His mouth opened and then shut, and his eyes skittered to her 
thighs, her feet, her unicorn knee socks, and quickly back to 
her face. No, not her face: some point above her shoulder. He 
cleared his throat before saying, “Glad it . . . fits.” He was 
looking at his phone again. His grip on the remote had 
tightened. 


It was a long beat before she realized that he was referring 
to his T-shirt. “Oh, yeah.” She grinned. “Exactly my size, 
right?” It was so large that it covered pretty much the same 
amount of skin her dress had, but was soft and comfortable 
like an old shoe. “Maybe I won’t give it back.” 


“It’s all yours.” 


She rocked on her heels, and wondered if it would be okay 
if she sat next to him now. It was only convenient, since they 
had to choose a movie together. “Can I really sleep in it this 
week?” 


“Of course. I’ll be gone tomorrow, anyway.” 


“Oh.” She knew that, of course. She’d known the first time 
he’d told her, a couple of weeks ago; she’d known this 
morning when she’d boarded the plane in San Francisco, and 
she’d known mere hours ago, when she’d used that precise 
piece of information to comfort herself that no matter how 
awkward and stressful, her stay with Adam would at least be 
short-lived. Except that it wasn’t awkward now. And it wasn’t 
stressful. Not nearly as much as the idea of being apart from 
him for several days. Of being here, of all places, without him. 
“How big is your suitcase?” 


“Hm?” 
“Can I come with you?” 


He looked up at her, still smiling, but he must’ve noticed 
something in her eyes, behind the joke and the attempt at 
humor. Something vulnerable and imploring that she’d failed 
to adequately bury within herself. 


“Olive.” He dropped his phone and the remote on the bed. 
“Don’t let them.” 


She just tilted her head. She was not going to cry again. 
There was no point in it. And she was not like this—this 
fragile, defenseless creature who second-guessed herself at 
every turn. At least, she didn’t use to be. God, she hated Tom 
Benton. 


“Let them?” 


“Don’t let them ruin this conference for you. Or science. Or 
make you feel any less proud of your accomplishments.” 


She looked down, studying the yellow of her socks as she 
buried her toes in the soft carpet. And then up to him again. 


“You know what’s really sad about this?” 


He shook his head, and Olive continued. 


“For a moment there, during the talk . . . I really enjoyed 
myself. I was panicky. Close to puking, for sure. But while I 
was talking to this huge group of people about my work and 
my hypotheses and my ideas, and explaining my reasoning 
and the trials and errors and why what I research is so 
important, I . . . I felt confident. I felt good at it. It all felt right 
and fun. Like science is supposed to be when you share it.” 
She wrapped her arms around herself. “Like maybe I could be 
an academic, down the road. A real one. And maybe make a 
difference.” 


He nodded as though he knew exactly what she meant. “I 
wish I had been there, Olive.” 


She could tell he really did. That he regretted not being 
with her. But even Adam—indomitable, decisive, ever- 
competent Adam—couldn’t be in two places at once, and the 
fact remained that he had not seen her talk. 


I have no idea if you’re good enough, but thats not what 
you should be asking yourself. What matters is whether your 
reason to be in academia is good enough. That’s what he’d 
told her years ago in the bathroom. What she’d been repeating 
to herself for years whenever she’d hit a wall. But what if he’d 
been wrong all along? What if there was such a thing as good 
enough? What if that was what mattered the most? 


“What if it’s true? What if I really am mediocre?” 


He didn’t reply for a long moment. He just stared, a hint of 
frustration in his expression, a thoughtful line to his lips. And 
then, low and even, he said, “When I was in my second year of 
grad school, my adviser told me that I was a failure who would 
never amount to anything.” 


“What?” Whatever she’d expected, that wasn’t it. “Why?” 


“Because of an incorrect primer design. But it wasn’t the 
first time, nor the last. And it wasn’t the most trivial reason he 
used to berate me. Sometimes he’d publicly humiliate his 


grads for no reason. But that specific time stuck with me, 
because I remember thinking . . .” He swallowed, and his 
throat worked. “I remember being sure that he was right. That 
I would never amount to anything.” 


“But you .. .” Have published articles in the Lancet. Have 
tenure and millions of dollars in research grants. Were keynote 
speaker at a major conference. Olive wasn’t even sure what to 
bring up, so she settled for, “You were a MacArthur Fellow.” 


“I was.” He exhaled a laugh. “And five years before the 
MacArthur grant, in the second year of my Ph.D., I spent an 
entire week preparing law school applications because I was 
sure that I’d never become a scientist.” 


““Wait—so what Holden said was true?” She couldn’t quite 
believe it. “Why law school?” 


He shrugged. “My parents would have loved it. And if I 
couldn’t be a scientist, I didn’t care what I’d become.” 


“What stopped you, then?” 
He sighed. “Holden. And Tom.” 
“Tom,” she repeated. Her stomach twisted, leaden. 


“I would have dropped out of my Ph.D. program if it 
hadn’t been for them. Our adviser was well-known in the field 
for being a sadist. Like I am, I suppose.” His mouth curled into 
a bitter smile. “I was aware of his reputation before starting 
my Ph.D. Thing is, he was also brilliant. The very best. And I 
thought . . . I thought that I could take it, whatever he’d dish 
out at me, and that it would be worth it. I thought it would be a 
matter of sacrifice and discipline and hard work.” There was a 
strain to Adam’s voice, as though the topic was not one he was 
used to discussing. 


Olive tried to be gentle when she asked, “And it wasn’t?” 


He shook his head. “The opposite, in a way.” 


“The opposite of discipline and hard work?” 


“We worked hard, all right. But discipline . . . discipline 
would presume specifically laid-out expectations. Ideal codes 
of behavior are defined, and a failure to adhere to them is 
addressed in a productive way. That’s what I thought, at least. 
What I still think. You said that I’m brutal with my grads, and 
maybe you’re right—” 


“Adam, I” 


“But what I try to do is set goals for them and help them 
achieve them. If I realize that they’re not doing what we have 
mutually agreed needs to be done, I tell them what’s wrong 
and what they must change. I don’t baby them, I don’t hide 
criticism in praises, I don’t believe in that Oreo cookie 
feedback crap, and if they find me terrifying or antagonizing 
because of it, so be it.” He took a deep breath. “But I also 
don’t ever make it about them. It’s always about the work. 
Sometimes it’s well done, other times it’s not, and if it’s 
not... work can be redone. It can improve. I don’t want them 
to tie their self-worth to what they produce.” He paused, and 
he looked—no, he fe/t faraway. Like these were things he gave 
a great deal of thought to, like he wanted this for his students. 
“I hate how self-important this all sounds, but science is 
serious business, and . . . it’s my duty as a scientist, I believe.” 


“I...” All of a sudden, the air in the hotel room was cold. 
I’m the one who told him, she thought, feeling her stomach 
flip. I’m the one who told him repeatedly that he’ terrifying 
and antagonizing, and that all his students hate him. “And 
your adviser didn’t?” 


“I never quite understood what he thought. What I do know 
now, years later, is that he was abusive. A lot of terrible things 
happened under his watch—scientists were not given credit for 
their ideas or authorship of papers they deserved. People were 
publicly belittled for making mistakes that would be normal 


for experienced researchers—let alone trainees. Expectations 
were stellar, but never fully defined. Impossible deadlines 
were set arbitrarily, out of the blue, and grads were punished 
for not meeting them. Ph.D. students were constantly assigned 
to the same tasks, then pitted against each other and asked to 
compete, for my adviser’s amusement. Once he put Holden 
and me on the same research project and told us that whoever 
obtained publishable results first would receive funding for the 
following semester.” 


She tried to imagine how it would feel, if Dr. Aslan openly 
promoted a competitive environment between Olive and her 
cohorts. But no—Adam and Holden had been close friends 
their whole lives, so the situation wasn’t comparable. It would 
have been like being told that to receive a salary next semester, 
Olive would need to outscience Anh. “What did you do?” 


He ran a hand through his hair, and a strand fell on his 
forehead. “We paired up. We figured that we had 
complementary skills—a pharmacology expert can achieve 
more with the help of a computational biologist, and vice 
versa. And we were right. We ran a really good study. It was 
exhausting, but also elating, staying up all hours to figure out 
how to fix our protocols. Knowing that we were the first to 
discover something.” For a moment, he seemed to enjoy the 
memory. But then he pressed his lips together, rolling his jaw. 
“And at the end of the semester, when we presented our 
findings to our adviser, he told us that we’d both be without 
funding, because by collaborating we hadn’t followed his 
guidelines. We spent the following spring teaching six sections 
of Introduction to Biology per week—on top of lab work. 
Holden and I were living together. I swear that I once heard 
him mumble ‘mitochondria are the powerhouse of the cell’ in 
his sleep.” 


“But . . . you gave your adviser what he wanted.” 


Adam shook his head. “He wanted a power play. And in 
the end he got it: he punished us for not dancing to his tune 
and published the findings we brought to him without 
acknowledging our role in obtaining them.” 


“T . . .” Her fingers fisted in the loose fabric of her 
borrowed T-shirt. “Adam, I’m so sorry I ever compared you to 
him. I didn’t mean to—” 


“It’s okay.” He smiled at her, tight but reassuring. 


It was not okay. Yes, Adam could be direct, painfully so. 
Stubborn and blunt and uncompromising. Not always kind, but 
never devious, or malicious. Quite the opposite: he was honest 
to a fault, and required from others the same discipline he 
clearly imposed on himself. As much as his grads complained 
about his harsh feedback or the long hours of work they were 
asked to put in the lab, they all recognized that he was a 
hands-on mentor without being a micromanager. Most of them 
graduated with several publications and moved on to excellent 
academic jobs. 


“You didn’t know.” 


“Still, I...’ She bit her lip, feeling guilty. Feeling 
defeated. Feeling angry at Adam’s adviser and at Tom for 
treating academia like their own personal playground. At 
herself, for not knowing what to do about it. “Why did no one 
report him?” 


He closed his eyes briefly. “Because he was short-listed for 
a Nobel Prize. Twice. Because he had powerful friends in high 
places, and we thought no one would believe us. Because he 
could make or break careers. Because we felt that there was no 
real system in place to ask for help.” There was a sour set to 
his jaw, and he was not looking at her anymore. It was so 
surreal, the idea of Adam Carlsen feeling powerless. And yet, 
his eyes told another story. “We were terrified, and probably 
somewhere deep down we were convinced that we’d signed up 


for it and we deserved it. That we were failures who would 
never amount to anything.” 


Her heart hurt for him. For herself. “I’m so, so sorry.” 


He shook his head again, and his expression somewhat 
cleared. “When he told me that I was a failure, I thought he 
was right. I was ready to give up on the one thing I cared about 
because of it. And Tom and Holden—they had their own 
issues with our adviser, of course. Everyone did. But they 
helped me. For some reason my adviser always seemed to 
know when something wrong was happening with my studies, 
but Tom mediated a lot between us. He took lots of crap so I 
wouldn’t have to. He was a favorite of my adviser’s and 
interceded to make the lab less like a battle zone.” 


Adam talking about Tom as though he were a hero made 
her nauseous, but she remained silent. This wasn’t about her. 


“And Holden . . . Holden stole my law school applications 
and made paper planes out of them. He was removed enough 
from what was happening to me that he could help me see 
things objectively. Just like I am removed from what happened 
to you today.” His eyes were on her, now. There was a light in 
them that she didn’t understand. “You are not mediocre, Olive. 
You were not invited to speak because people think that you 
are my girlfriend—there is no such thing, since SBD’s 
abstracts go through a blind review process. I would know, 
because I’ve been roped into reviewing them in the past. And 
the work you presented is important, rigorous, and brilliant.” 
He took a deep breath. His shoulders rose and fell in time with 
the thudding of her heart. “I wish you could see yourself the 
way I see you.” 


Maybe it was the words, or maybe the tone. Maybe it was 
the way he’d just told her something about himself, or how 
he’d taken her hand earlier and saved her from her misery. Her 
knight in black armor. Maybe it was none of it, maybe it was 


all of it, maybe it was always going to happen. Still—it didn’t 
matter. Suddenly, it just didn’t matter, the why of it, the how. 
The after. All Olive cared about was that she wanted to, right 
now, and that seemed enough to make it all right. 


It was all so slow: the step forward she took to come to 
stand between his knees, the rise of her hand to his face, the 
way her fingers cupped his jaw. Slow enough that he could 
have stopped her, he could have pulled out of reach, he could 
have said something—and he did not. He simply looked up at 
her, his eyes a clear, liquid brown, and Olive’s heart at once 
jumped and quieted when he tilted his head and leaned into her 
palm. 


It didn’t surprise her, how soft his skin was beneath the 
night stubble, how much warmer than hers. And when she 
bent, for once taller than him, the shape of his lips under hers 
was like an old song, familiar and easy. It wasn’t their first 
kiss, after all. Though, it was different. Calm and tentative and 
precious, Adam’s hand light on her waist as he tilted his chin 
up to her, eager and pressing, like this was something he’d 
thought of—like he’d been wanting it, too. It wasn’t their first 
kiss, but it was the first kiss that was theirs, and Olive savored 
it for long moments. The texture, the smell, the closeness. The 
slight hitch in Adam’s breath, the odd pauses, the way their 
lips had to work a little before finding the right angles and 
some form of coordination. 


See? She wanted to say, triumphant. To whom, she wasn’t 
sure. See? It was always going to be like this. Olive grinned 
into his lips. And Adam— 


Adam was already shaking his head when she pulled back, 
like a no had been waiting in his mouth all along, even as he 
returned her kiss. His fingers closed tight around her wrist, 
drawing her hand away from his face. “This is not a good 
idea.” 


Her smile faded. He was right. He was completely right. 
He was also wrong. “Why?” 


“Olive.” He shook his head again. Then his hand left her 
waist and came up to his lips, as if to touch the kiss they’d just 
shared, make sure it had really happened. “This is . . . no.” 


He really was right. But . . . “Why?” she repeated. 


Adam’s fingers pressed into his eyes. His left hand was still 
holding her wrist, and she wondered distractedly if he was 
even aware of it. If he knew that his thumb was swiping back 
and forth across her pulse. “This is not what we’re here for.” 

She could feel her nostrils flare. “That doesn’t mean that 


99 


“You’re not thinking clearly.” He swallowed visibly. 
“You’re upset and drunk, and—” 


“I had two beers. Hours ago.” 


“You're a grad student, currently depending on me for a 
place to stay, and even if not, the power I have over you could 
easily turn this into a coercive dynamic that—” 


“T’m—” Olive laughed. “I’m not feeling coerced, IL” 
“You’re in love with someone else!” 


She almost recoiled. The way he spit out the words was 
that heated. It should have put her off, driven her away, once 
and for all drilled into her head how ridiculous this was, how 
disastrous an idea. It didn’t, though. By now the moody, ill- 
tempered ass Adam meshed so well with her Adam, the one 
who bought her cookies and checked her slides and let her cry 
into his neck. There might have been a time when she couldn’t 
quite reconcile the two, but they were all so clear now, the 
many faces of him. She wouldn’t want to leave behind any of 
them. Not one. 


“Olive.” He sighed heavily, closing his eyes. The idea that 
he might be thinking of the woman who Holden mentioned 
flashed into her mind and slipped away, too painful to 
entertain. 


She should just tell him. She should be honest with him, 
admit that she didn’t care about Jeremy, that there was no one 
else. Never had been. But she was terrified, paralyzed with 
fear, and after the day she’d had, her heart felt so easy to 
break. So fragile. Adam could shatter it in a thousand pieces, 
and still be none the wiser. 


“Olive, this is how you’re feeling now. A month from now, 
a week, tomorrow, I don’t want you to regret—” 


“What about what / want?” She leaned forward, letting her 
words soak the silence for drawn-out seconds. “What about 
the fact that J want this? Though maybe you don’t care.” She 
squared her shoulders, blinking quickly against the prickling 
sensation in her eyes. “Because you don’t want it, right? 
Maybe I’m just not attractive to you and you don’t want this 


99 


It nearly made her lose her balance, the way he tugged at 
her wrist and pulled her hand to himself, pressing her palm 
flush to his groin to show her that . . . Oh. 


Oh. 
Yeah. 


His jaw rolled as he held her gaze. “You have no fucking 
idea what I want.” 


It took her breath away, all of it. The low, guttural tone of 
his voice, the thick ridge under her fingers, the enraged, 
hungry note in his eyes. He pushed her hand away almost 
immediately, but it already felt too late. 


It wasn’t that Olive hadn’t . . . the kisses they’d exchanged, 
they were always physical, but now it was as if something had 


been switched on. For a long time she’d thought Adam 
handsome and attractive. She’d touched him, sat on his lap, 
considered the vague possibility of being intimate with him. 
She’d thought about him, about sex, about him and sex, but it 
had always been abstract. Hazy and undefined. Like line art in 
black and white: just the base for a drawing that was suddenly 
coloring on the inside. 


It was clear now, in the damp ache pooling between her 
thighs, in his eyes that were all pupil, how it would be between 
them. Heady and sweaty and slick. Challenging. They would 
do things for each other, demand things of each other. They 
would be incredibly close. And Olive—now that she could see 
it, she really, really wanted it. 


She stepped close, even closer. “Well, then.” Her voice was 
low, but she knew he could hear her. 


He shut his eyes tight. “This is not why I asked you to 
room with me.” 


“I know.” Olive pushed a black strand of hair away from 
his forehead. “It’s also not why I accepted.” 


His lips were parted, and he was staring down at her hand, 
the one that was almost wrapped around his erection a moment 
ago. “You said no sex.” 


She had said that. She remembered thinking about her 
rules, listing them in his office, and she remembered being 
certain that she would never, ever be interested in seeing 
Adam Carlsen for longer than ten minutes a week. “I also said 
it was going to be an on-campus thing. And we just went out 
for dinner. So.” He might know what was best, but what he 
wanted was different. She could almost see the debris of his 
control, feel it slowly erode. 


“I don’t . . .” He straightened, infinitesimally. The line of 
his shoulders, his jaw—he was so tense, still avoiding her 
eyes. “I don’t have anything.” 


It was a little embarrassing, the amount of time it took for 
her to parse the meaning of it. “Oh. It doesn’t matter. I’m on 
birth control. And clean.” She bit into her lip. “But we could 
also do . . . other things.” 


Adam swallowed, twice, and then nodded. He wasn’t 
breathing normally. And Olive doubted he could say no at this 
point. That he would even want to. He did put up a good 
effort, though. “What if you hate me for this, after? What if we 
go back and you change your mind—” 


“I won't. I. . .” She stepped—God, even closer. She 
wouldn’t think about after. Couldn’t, didn’t want to. “I’ve 
never been surer of anything. Except maybe cell theory.” She 
smiled, hoping he’d smile back. 


Adam’s mouth remained straight and serious, but it 
scarcely mattered: the next time Olive felt his touch it was on 
the slope of her hip bone, under the cotton of the T-shirt he’d 
given her. 


Chapter firtew 


eg HYPOTHESIS: Despite what everyone says, sex is never 
going to be anything more than a mildly enjoyable activi— Oh. 


Oh. 


It was like a layer peeled away. 


Adam yanked off the shirt he was wearing in one fluid 
movement, and it was as though the white cotton was only one 
of many things tossed in a corner of the room. Olive didn’t 
have a name for what the other things were; all she knew was 
that a few seconds earlier he’d seemed reluctant, almost 
unwilling to touch her, and now he was... . not. 


He was running the show now. Wrapping his large hands 
around her waist, sliding his fingertips under the elastic of her 
green polka-dot panties, and kissing her. 


He kisses, Olive thought, like a man starved. Like he’d 
been waiting all this time. Holding back. Like the possibility 
of the two of them doing this had occurred to him in the past, 
but he’d set it aside, stored it away in a deep, dark place where 
it had grown into something fearsome and out of control. 
Olive thought she knew how it would be—they’d kissed 
before, after all. Except, she realized now, that she had always 
been the one to kiss him. 


Maybe she was being fanciful. What did she know about 
different types of kisses, anyway? Still, something in her belly 
thrummed and liquefied when his tongue licked against hers, 
when he bit a tender spot on her neck, when he made a 
guttural noise in the back of his throat as his fingers cupped 


her ass through her panties. Under her shirt, his hand traveled 
up to her rib cage. Olive gasped and smiled into his mouth. 


“You did that before.” 


He blinked at her, confused, pupils blown large and dark. 
“What?” 


“The night I kissed you in the hallway. You did it that 
night, too.” 


“I did what?” 


“You touched me. Here.” Her hand slid to her ribs to cover 
his through the cotton. 


He looked up at her through dark lashes, and began to lift a 
corner of her shirt, up her thighs and past her hip until it 
caught right under her breast. He leaned into her, pressing his 
lips against the lowest part of her ribs. Olive gasped. And 
gasped again when he bit her softly, and then licked across the 
same spot. 


“Here?” he asked. She was growing light-headed. It could 
be how close he was, or the heat in the room. Or the fact that 
she was almost naked, standing in front of him in nothing but 
panties and socks. “Olive.” His mouth traveled upward, less 
than an inch, teeth grazing against skin and bone. “Here?” She 
hadn’t thought she could get this wet this quickly. Or at all. 
Then again, she hadn’t really thought much about sex in the 
past few years. 


“Pay attention, sweetheart.” He sucked the underside of her 
breast. She had to hold on to his shoulders, or her knees would 
give out on her. “Here?” 


“I...” It took a moment to focus, but she nodded. “Maybe. 
Yes, there. It was .. . it was a good kiss.” Her eyes fluttered 
closed, and she didn’t even fight it when he took the shirt 
completely off her. It was his, after all. And the way he was 


studying her, it brooked no self-consciousness on her part. “Do 
you remember it?” 


He was the distracted one now. Staring at her breasts like 
they were something spectacular, his lips parted and breath 
quick and shallow. “Remember what?” 


“Our first kiss.” 


He didn’t answer. Instead he looked up and down at her, 
eyes glazed, and said, “I want to keep you in this hotel room 
for a week.” His hand came up to cup her breast, not exactly 
gentle. Just this side of too forceful, and Olive felt herself 
clench around nothing. “For a year.” 


He pushed his hand against her shoulder blades to make 
her arch toward him, and then closed his mouth against her 
breast, all teeth and tongue and wonderful, delicious suction. 
Olive whimpered against the back of her hand, because she 
hadn’t known, hadn’t thought that she’d be so sensitive, but 
her nipples were tight and raw and almost sore, and if he 
didn’t do something, she’ d— 


“You’re edible, Olive.” 


His palm pressed against her spine, and Olive arched a 
little more. An offering of sorts. “That’s probably an insult,” 
she breathed out with a smile, “considering that you only like 
wheatgrass and broccoli— Oh.” 


He could fit her entire breast in his mouth. All of it. He 
groaned in the back of his throat, and it was clear that he’d 
love to swallow her whole. Olive should touch him, too—she 
was the one who’d asked for this, and it followed that she 
should make sure that being with her was not a chore for him. 
Maybe put her hand back where he’d dragged it earlier and 
stroke? He could instruct her on how he liked it. Maybe this 
was a one-time thing and they were never going to talk about 
it again, but Olive couldn’t help herself—she just wanted him 
to like this. To like her. 


“This okay?” She must have lingered too long inside her 
head, because he was looking up at her with a frown, his 
thumb swiping back and forth on her hip bone. “You’re tense.” 
His voice was strained. He was cupping his cock almost 
absentmindedly, stroking and gripping every once in a while— 
when his eyes fell on the hard points of her nipples, when she 
shivered, when she squirmed on her feet to rub her thighs 
together. “We don’t have to—” 


“I want to. I said I did.” 


His throat bobbed. “It doesn’t matter, what you said. You 
can always change your mind.” 


“I won't.” The way he was looking at her, Olive was sure 
he’d protest again. But he just rested his forehead on her 
sternum, his breath warm against the skin he’d just licked, and 
let his fingertips coast the elastic of her panties, dip under the 
thin cotton. 


“I think ’ve changed my mind,” he murmured. 


She stiffened. “I know I’m not doing anything, but if you 
tell me what you like, I can—” 


“My favorite color must be green, after all.” 


She exhaled when his thumb pressed between her legs, 
brushing against fabric that was already dark and wet. She 
exhaled in a rush until there was no air left, embarrassment 
washing over her at the thought that now he must know 
exactly how much she wanted this—and at the pleasure of his 
finger, large and blunt, running against her seam. 


He definitely knew. Because he looked back up at her, 
glassy-eyed and breathing fast. “Damn,” he said, quiet. 
“Olive.” 


“Do you...” Her mouth was as dry as the desert. “Do you 
want me to take them off?” 


“No.” He shook his head. “Not yet.” 
“But if we—” 


He hooked his finger on the elastic and pushed the cotton 
to the side. She was glistening, swollen and plump to her own 
eyes, way too far ahead, considering that they’d barely done 
anything. Too eager. This was embarrassing. “I’m sorry.” 
There were two kinds of heat, the one curling tight at the 
bottom of her stomach, and the one rising to her cheeks. Olive 
could barely tell them apart. “Iam...” 


“Perfect.” He wasn’t really talking to her. More to himself, 
marveling at the way his fingertip sank so easily between her 
folds, parting them and gliding back and forth until Olive 
threw back her head and closed her eyes because the pleasure 
was streaming, stretching, thrumming through her and she 
couldn’t, couldn’t, couldn t— 


“You are so beautiful.” The words sounded hushed, ripped 
out of him. Like he wasn’t going to say them. “May I?” 


It took her several heartbeats to realize that he was 
referring to his middle finger, to the way it was circling around 
her entrance and tapping at it. Applying a light pressure right 
against the rim. So wet already. 


Olive moaned. “Yes. Anything,” she breathed out. 


He licked her nipple, a silent thank-you, and pushed in. Or 
at least, he tried. Olive hissed and so did Adam, with a muted, 
hoarse “Fuck.” 


He had big fingers—that must be why they didn’t fit. The 
first knuckle was just shy of too much, a pinching ache and the 
sensation of damp, uncomfortable fullness. She shifted on her 
heels, trying to adjust and make room, and then shifted some 
more, until he had to grip her hip with his other hand to keep 
her still. Olive held on to his shoulders, his skin sweat slicked 
and scorching hot under her palms. “Shh.” 


His thumb grazed her, and she whimpered. “It’s okay. 
Relax.” 


Impossible. Though, if Olive had to be honest, the way his 
finger was curving inside her—it was already getting better. 
Not so painful now, and maybe even wetter, and if he touched 
her there . . . Her head lolled back. She clutched his muscles 
with her nails. 


“There? Is that a good spot?” 


Olive wanted to tell him that no, it was too much, but 
before she could open her mouth, he did it again, until she 
couldn’t keep quiet anymore, all groans and whimpers and 
wet, obscene noises. Until he tried to get a little further inside, 
and she couldn’t help wincing. 


“What is it?” His voice was his regular voice, but a million 
times raspier. “Does it hurt?” 


“No— Oh.” 


He looked up, all flushed pale skin against dark waves. 
“Why are you so tense, Olive? You’ve done this before, 
right?” 


“ĮI—yes.” She was not sure what compelled her to continue. 
Any idiot could see from a mile away that it was a terrible 
idea, but there was no room left for lies now that they were 
standing so close. So she confessed, “A couple of times. In 
college.” 


Adam went immobile. Completely motionless. His muscles 
flexed, coiled strong under her palms, and then they just 
stayed like that, tense and still as he stared up at her. “Olive.” 


“But it doesn’t matter,” she hastened to add, because he 
was already shaking his head, pulling away from her. It really 
didn’t matter. Not to Olive, and therefore, it shouldn’t to 
Adam, either. “I can figure it out—I’ve learned whole-cell 
patch clamp in a couple of hours; sex can’t be much harder. 


And I bet you do this all the time, so you can tell me how to 


99 


“You'd lose.” 


The room was chilly. His finger was not inside her 
anymore, and his hand had left her hip. 


“What?” 


“You'd lose your bet.” He sighed, wiping a hand down his 
face. The other one, the one that had been inside her, moved 
down to adjust his cock. It looked enormous by now, and he 
winced as he touched it. “Olive, I can’t.” 


“Of course you can.” 

He shook his head. “I’m sorry.” 
“What? No. No, I” 

“You’re basically a vir—” 

“T’m not!” 

“Olive.” 

“I am not.” 

“But so close to it that—” 


“No, that’s not the way it works. Virginity is not a 
continuous variable, it’s categorical. Binary. Nominal. 
Dichotomous. Ordinal, potentially. Pm talking about chi- 
square, maybe Spearman’s correlation, logistic regression, the 
logit model and that stupid sigmoid function, and...” 


It had been weeks and it still took her breath away, the 
uneven tilt of his smile. How unanticipated it always was, the 
dimples it formed. Olive was left without air as his large palm 
cupped the side of her face and brought it down for a slow, 
warm, laughing kiss. 


“You are such a smart-ass,” he said against her mouth. 


“Maybe.” She was smiling, too. And kissing him back. 
Hugging him, arms draped around his neck, and she felt a 
shiver of pleasure when he pulled her deeper into himself. 


“Olive,” he said inching back, “if for any reason sex is 
something that you . . . that you’re not comfortable with, or 
that you’d rather not have outside of a relationship, then—” 


“No. No, it’s nothing like that. I—” She took a deep breath, 
looking for a way to explain herself. “It’s not that I want to not 
have sex. I just . . . don’t particularly want to have it. There is 
something weird about my brain, and my body, and—I don’t 
know what’s wrong with me, but I don’t seem to be able to 
experience attraction like other people. Like normal people. I 
tried to just . . . to just do it, to get it over with, and the guy I 
did it with was nice, but the truth is that I just don’t feel 
any...” She closed her eyes. This was difficult to admit. “I 
don’t feel any sexual attraction unless I actually get to trust 
and like a person, which for some reason never happens. Or, 
almost never. It hadn’t, not in a long time, but now—I really 
like you, and I really trust you, and for the first time in a 
million years I want to—” 


She couldn’t ramble anymore, because he was kissing her 
again, this time hard and bruising, as though he wanted to 
absorb her into himself. “I want to do this,” she said, as soon 
as she was able to. “With you. I really do.” 


“Me too, Olive.” He sighed. “You have no idea.” 


“Then, please. Please, don’t say no.” She bit her lip, and 
then his. And then nipped at his jaw. “Please?” 


He took a deep breath and nodded. She smiled and kissed 
the curve of his neck, and his hand splayed against her lower 
back. 


“But,” he said, “we should probably go about this a little 
differently.” 


IT TOOK HER the longest time to realize his intentions. Not 
because she was stupid, or oblivious, or that naive about sex, 
but because... 


Maybe she was a little naive about sex. But she truly hadn’t 
thought about it for ages before Adam, and even then, it was 
never quite in these terms—him above her, pushing her legs 
wide open with his palms on her inner thighs and then 
kneeling between them. Sliding down, low. 


“What are you—” 


The way he parted her with his tongue, it was as though she 
was butter and he meant to slice through her like a hot knife. 
He was slow but sure, and didn’t pause when Olive’s thigh 
stiffened against his palm, or when she tried to squirm away. 
He just grunted, rich and low; then ran his nose in the skin at 
the juncture of her abdomen, inhaling deeply; and then he 
licked her once more. 


“Adam—stop,” she pleaded, and for a moment he just 
nuzzled his face against her folds like he had no intention of 
doing any such thing. Then he lifted his head, eyes foggy, as if 
aware that he should be listening to her. 


“Mmm?” His lips vibrated against her. 
“Maybe ... maybe you should stop?” 


He went still, his hand tightening around her thigh. “Have 
you changed your mind?” 


“No. But we should do. . . other things.” 
He frowned. “You don’t like this?” 


“No. Yes. Well, Pve never . . .” The line between his 
eyebrows deepened. “But I’m the one who put you up to this, 


so we should do things that you are into, and not stuff for 


99 


me... 


This time it was the flat of his tongue against her clit, 
pressing just enough to make her clench and exhale in a rush. 
The tip was circling around it, which—such a small 
movement, and yet it sent her hand straight to her mouth, had 
her biting the fleshy part of her palm. 


“Adam!” Her voice sounded like someone else’s. “Did you 
hear whatI...?” 


“You said to do something I’m into.” His breath was hot 
against her. “I am.” 


“You can’t possibly want to—” 


He squeezed her leg. “I can’t remember a moment I 
didn’t.” 

It just didn’t feel like standard hookup fare, something this 
intimate. But it was hard to protest when he looked 
spellbound, staring at her, at her face and her legs and the rest 
of her body. His hand was large, open over her abdomen and 
holding her down, inching higher and closer to her breasts, but 
never close enough. Lying like this, Olive was a little 
embarrassed of how concave her stomach was. Of the way her 
ribs stuck out. Adam, though, didn’t seem to mind. 


“Wouldn’t you rather—” 

A nip. “No.” 

“I didn’t even say—” 

He glanced up. “There isn’t anything Pd rather do.” 
“But—” 


He sucked on one of her lips with a loud, wet noise, and 
she gasped. And then his tongue was inside her, and she 
moaned, half in surprise, half at the feeling of— Yes. 


Yes. 


“Fuck,” someone said. It wasn’t Olive, so it must have 
been Adam. “Fuck.” It felt incredible. Otherworldly. His 
tongue, dipping in and out, circling and lapping, and his nose 
against her skin, and the quiet sounds he made from deep in 
his chest whenever she contracted, and Olive was going to— 
she... 


She wasn’t sure she was going to come. Not with another 
person in the room touching her. “This might take a while,” 
she said apologetically, hating how thin her voice sounded. 


“Fuck, yes.” His tongue swiped the entirety of her, a long, 
broad stroke. “Please.” She didn’t think she’d ever heard him 
quite this enthusiastic about anything, not even grant writing 
or computational biology. It kicked the whole thing a few 
notches higher for her, and it got worse when she noticed his 
arm. The one that wasn’t cupping the cheek of her ass and 
holding her open. 


He hadn’t taken himself out of his pants yet, that Olive 
could see, and wasn’t that unfair, since she was all splayed 
open for him. But the way his arm was shifting, how his hand 
was moving up and down slowly, that was just unbearable. 
She arched further, her spine shaping a perfect curve as the 
back of her head hit the pillow. 


“Olive.” He leaned back a few centimeters and kissed the 
inside of her shaking thigh. Took a deep breath with his nose, 
as if to hold the smell of her within himself. “You can’t come 
yet.” His lips brushed against her folds as his tongue dipped in 
again, and she squeezed her eyes shut. There was a liquid, 
burning heat blossoming in her tummy, spilling all over her. 
Her fingers clawed at the sheets, grasping for an anchor. This 
was impossible. Unmanageable. 


“Adam. ” 


“Don’t. Two more minutes.” He sucked on— God, yes. 
There. 


“T’m—sorry.” 
“One more.” 

“I can t—” 
“Focus, Olive.” 


In the end, it was his voice that ruined everything. That 
quiet, possessive tone, the hint of an order in the low rasp of 
his words, and the pleasure broke over her like an ocean wave. 
Her mind snapped, and she was not wholly herself for 
seconds, and then minutes, and when she had a sense of the 
world again, he was still licking her, except more slowly, as if 
with no purpose but to savor her. “I want to go down on you 
until you pass out.” His lips were so soft against her skin. 


“No.” Olive fisted the pillow. “I—you can’t.” 
“Why?” 


“I have to...” She couldn’t think straight, not quite yet. 
Her mind was addled, stuttering. 


She almost screamed when he pushed one finger inside. 
This time it sank like a rock into water, smooth and without 
obstacle, and her walls clamped on it as if to welcome Adam 
and hold him inside. 


“Jesus.” He licked her clit again, and she was too sensitive 
for this. Maybe. “You are’”—he hooked his finger inside her, 
pressing against the roof of her channel, and the pleasure 
welled in her, washing against her edges—“so small and tight 
and warm.” 


The heat flooded within her once more, knocked the air out 
of her lungs, leaving her openmouthed, bright colors bursting 
behind her eyelids. He groaned something that was not quite 
coherent, and slid in another finger on the tail end of her 


orgasm, and the taut stretch of it, it was ruinous. Her body 
bloomed into something that didn’t belong to her anymore, 
something made of bright, high peaks and lush valleys. It left 
her heavy and boneless, and she was not sure how long went 
by before she could bear to raise her palm to his forehead and 
gently push him away to get him to stop. He shot her a sullen 
glance but complied, and Olive tugged him up—because he 
looked like he might start again any moment, and because it 
would be nice, to have him next to her. Maybe he was thinking 
the same: he lifted himself above her, leaning his weight on his 
forearm; his chest pushed against her breast, one large thigh 
lodged firmly between her legs. 


She was still wearing her stupid knee socks, and God, 
Adam was probably thinking that she was the lamest lay he’d 
ever— 


“Can I fuck you?” 


He said it, and then he kissed her, unconcerned with where 
his mouth had been just seconds earlier. She wondered if she 
should be put off by that, but she was still twitching with 
pleasure, contracting with aftershocks at the memory of what 
he’d just done. She couldn’t make herself care, and it was nice 
to kiss him like this. So nice. 


“Mmm.” Her palms came up to cup his face, and she began 
to trace his cheekbones with her thumbs. They were red, and 
hot. “What?” 


“Can I fuck you?” He sucked the base of her throat. 
“Please?” He breathed it against the shell of her ear, and—it 
wasn’t as though she could say no. Or wanted to. She nodded 
her permission and reached for his cock, but he beat her to it 
and pulled down his pants, closing his fist around it. He was 
big. Larger than she’d thought he’d be, than she’d thought 
anyone could be. She could still feel his heart pounding 


rapidly against her chest as he aligned himself to her and 
nudged the head against her opening and— 


Olive was lax now. And pliant. And still not loose enough. 
“Ah.” It didn’t quite hurt, but it was nearly too much. 
Definitely not easy. And yet, that sensation, the push of him 
against every part of her, it held a promise. “You’re so big.” 


He groaned into her neck. His entire body was vibrating 
with tension. “You can take it.” 


“I can,” she told him, voice reedy, and her breath caught 
halfway through the second word. Women gave birth, after all. 
Except that he was not in, not really. Not even half. And there 
was just no more room. 


Olive looked up at him. His eyes were closed, dark half- 
moons against his skin, and his jaw was tense. “What if it’s too 
much?” 


Adam lowered his lips to her ear. “Then . . .” He attempted 
a thrust, and maybe it was too much, but the friction was 
lovely. “Then Ill fuck you like this.” She squeezed her eyes 
shut when he hit a place that made her whimper. “God, Olive.” 


Her entire body was pulsating. “Is there something I should 
be.” 


“Just . . .” He kissed her collarbone. Their breathing was 
erratic by now, loud in the silence of the room. “Be quiet for a 
moment. So I don’t come already.” 


Olive canted her hips, and he was rubbing that spot again. 
It made her thighs tremble, and she tried to open them wider. 
To invite him inside. “Maybe you should.” 


“I should?” 


She nodded. They were too dazed to kiss with any kind of 
coordination by this point, but his lips were hot and soft when 
they brushed against hers. “Yes.” 


“Inside you?” 
“Tf you—” 


Adam’s hand came up behind Olive’s knee and angled it 
just so, spreading her legs in a way she simply hadn’t thought 
of. Firmly holding her open. 


“If you want to.” 
“You're so perfect, you’re driving me insane.” 


Her insides opened to him without warning. They 
welcomed and pulled at him until he bottomed out, until he 
was wedged deep and stretching her to a point that should be 
breaking, but just made her feel filled, sealed, perfect. 


They both exhaled. Olive lifted a hand, closed it shakily 
around Adam’s sweaty nape. 


“Hey.” She smiled up at him. 
He smiled back, just a little. “Hey.” 


His eyes were opaque, like stained glass. He moved inside 
her, just a hint of a thrust, and it made her entire body clench 
around him, until she could feel his cock twitch and pulsate 
inside her, like a drum. Her head fell to the pillow, and 
someone was groaning, something guttural and out of control. 


Then Adam pulled out, pushed back in, and they 
annihilated the no-sex rule. In the span of a few seconds his 
thrusts went from tentative, exploratory, to fast and all- 
eclipsing. His hand slid to the small of her back, lifting her 
into him as he piled in, and in, and in again, rubbing inside 
her, against her, forcing pleasure to vibrate up her spine. 

“Is this okay?” he asked against her ear, not quite 
managing to stop. 


Olive couldn’t answer. Not past the sharp hitch of her 
breath, the way her fingers dug desperately into the sheets. 
Pressure built again inside her, swelled large and consuming. 


“You have to tell me, if you don’t like it,” he rasped. “What 
I’m doing.” He was eager, a little clumsy, losing control and 
slipping out of her, having to nudge his cock back inside; he 
was out of focus, but so was she, too flooded by how good he 
felt, how stupefying the pleasure, how smoothly he slid in and 
out. How right this felt. 


“I 29 


“Olive, you have to—” He stopped with a grunt, because 
she canted her hips and clenched around him. Gripping him 
harder, sucking him deeper. 


“I like it.” She reached up to fist her fingers in his hair. To 
catch his eyes, make sure he was paying attention as she said, 
“I Jove it, Adam.” 


His control poured out. He made a crude noise and 
shuddered, pumping hard and muttering nonsense into her skin 
—how perfect she was, how beautiful, how long he’d wanted 
this, how he would never, could never let go of her. Olive felt 
his orgasm soar, the blinding, scalding pleasure as he trembled 
on top of her. 


She smiled. And when new shivers began to roll down her 
spine, she bit Adam’s shoulder and let herself go under. 


Chapter Swenteew 


eg HYPOTHESIS: When I think I've hit rock bottom, someone will 
hand me a shovel. That someone is probably Tom Benton. 


Olive drifted off after the first time, and dreamed of many 
strange, nonsensical things. Sushi rolls shaped like spiders. 
The first snowfall in Toronto, during her last year with her 
mother. Adam’s dimples. Tom Benton’s sneer as he spat the 
words “little sob story.” Adam, again, this time serious, saying 
her name in his unique way. 


Then she felt the mattress dip, and the sound of something 
being placed on the nightstand. She slowly blinked awake, 
disoriented in the dim light of the room. Adam was sitting on 
the side of the bed, pushing a lock of hair behind her ear. 


“Hi.” She smiled. 
“Hey.” 
Her hand reached out to touch his thigh through the pants 


he’d never managed to take all the way off. He was still warm, 
still solid. Still there. 


“How long did I sleep?” 
“Not long. Maybe thirty minutes.” 


“Hmm.” She stretched a bit against the mattress, arms 
above her head, and noticed the fresh glass of water on the 
nightstand. “Is that for me?” 


He nodded, handed it to her, and she propped up on her 
elbow to drink it, smiling in thanks. She noticed his gaze 
linger on her breasts, still tender and sore from his mouth, and 
then drift away to his own palms. 


Oh. Maybe, now that they had sex—good sex, Olive 
thought, amazing sex, though who knew about Adam?—he 
needed his own space. Maybe he wanted his own damn pillow. 


She returned the empty glass and sat up. “I should move to 
my bed.” 


He shook his head with an intensity that suggested that he 
didn’t want her to go, not anywhere, not ever. His free hand 
closed tight around her waist, as if to tether her to him. 


Olive didn’t mind. 
“You sure? I suspect I might be a cover hog.” 


“It’s fine. I run warm.” He brushed a strand of hair from 
her forehead. “And according to someone, I look like I might 
snore.” 


She gasped in mock outrage. “How dare they? Tell me who 
said that and I will personally avenge you—” She yelped when 
he held the icy-cool glass against her neck, and then dissolved 
into laughter, drawing up her knees and trying to twist away 
from him. “I’m sorry—you don’t snore! You sleep like a 
prince!” 


“Damn right.” He set the glass on the nightstand, appeased, 
but Olive remained curled up, cheeks flushed and breathing 
hard from fending him off. He was smiling. With dimples, too. 
The same smile he’d smiled into her neck earlier, against her 
skin, the one that had tickled her and made her laugh. 


“I’m sorry about the socks, by the way.” She winced. “I 
know it’s a controversial topic.” 


Adam looked down at the rainbow-colored material 
stretched around her calves. “Socks are controversial?” 


“Not socks per se. Just, keeping them on during sex?” 


“Really?” 


“Totally. At least according to the issue of Cosmopolitan 
we keep at home to swat cockroaches.” 


He shrugged, like a man who’d only ever read the New 
England Journal of Medicine and maybe Truck-Pushing 
Digest. “Why would anyone care one way or the other?” 


“Maybe they don’t want to unknowingly have sex with 
people with horrible, disfigured toes?” 


“Do you have disfigured toes?” 


“Truly grotesque. Circus-worthy. Antithetical to sex. 
Basically a built-in contraceptive.” 


He sighed, clearly amused. He was struggling to hold on to 
his moody, broody, intense act, and Olive loved it. 


“T’ve seen you in flip-flops multiple times. Which, by the 
way, are not lab compliant.” 


“You must be mistaken.” 
“Really.” 


“I don’t like what you’re insinuating, Dr. Carlsen. I take the 
Stanford environmental health and safety guidelines very 
seriously and— What are you—” 


He was so much larger than her, he could hold her down 
with one hand on her belly as he wrestled her out of her socks, 
and for some reason she loved every moment of it. She put up 
a good fight, and maybe he’d have a couple of bruises 
tomorrow, but when he finally managed to take them off, 
Olive was out of breath from laughing. Adam caressed her feet 
reverently, as though they were delicate and perfectly shaped 
instead of belonging to someone who ran two marathons a 
year. 


“You were right,” he said. Chest heaving, she looked at him 
curiously. “Your feet are pretty hideous.” 


“What?” She gasped and freed herself, pushing at his 
shoulder until he ended up on his back under her. He surely 
could have unseated her, giant that he was. And yet. “Take it 
back.” 


“You said it first.” 

“Take it back. My feet are cute.” 
“In a hideous way, maybe.” 
“That’s not a thing.” 


His laugh blew warm against her cheek. “There’s probably 
a German word for that. Cute, but exceptionally ugly.” 


She bit his lip just enough to make him feel it, and Adam— 
he seemed to lose that grip he always had on himself. He 
seemed to suddenly want more, and he flipped them until she 
was underneath him, turning the bite into a kiss. Or maybe it 
was Olive herself, since her tongue was licking his lip, exactly 
where she’d made it sting. 


She should probably tell him to stop. She was sweaty and 
sticky, and should excuse herself and go take a shower. Yes, 
that sounded like good sex etiquette. But he felt warm and 
strong, positively glowing. He smelled delicious, even after all 
they’d done, and she couldn’t help getting sidetracked and 
letting her arms loop around his neck. Pulling him down. 


“You weigh a ton,” she told him. He made to move up and 
away, but she wrapped her legs around his waist, holding him 
close. She felt so safe with him. Invincible. A true slayer. He 
turned her into a powerful, ferocious person, one that could 
destroy Tom Benton and pancreatic cancer before breakfast. 


“No, I love it. Stay, please.” She grinned up at him, and 
saw his breathing speed up. 


“You are a cover hog.” There was a spot at the base of her 
neck that he’d found earlier, a spot that made her sigh and arch 


up and melt into the pillow. He attacked it like it was his new 
true north. He had a way of kissing her, half cautious and half 
unrestrained, that had her wondering why she used to think of 
kissing as such a boring, aimless activity. 


“I should go clean up,” she said, but didn’t make a move. 
He slid down, just a couple of inches, just enough to get 
distracted by her collarbone, and then by the curve of her 
breast. “Adam.” 


He ignored her and traced her jutting hip bones, and her 
ribs, the taut skin of her belly. He kissed every last freckle, as 
though to store them up in his memory, and there were so 
many. “I’m all sticky, Adam.” She squirmed a little. 


In response, his palm moved to her ass. To keep her still. 
“Ssh. P1 clean you up myself.” 


He put his finger inside her and she gasped, because— Oh 
God. Oh. Oh God. She could hear the wet noises down there, 
from herself and his own come, and he should be disgusted by 
this, and she should, too, and yet— 


She wasn’t. And he was groaning, as if the satisfaction of 
having made a mess of her, inside her, of knowing that she’d 
let him, was a heady thing for him. Olive closed her eyes and 
let herself go under, feeling him lick the skin between her 
thigh and abdomen, hearing low moans and gasps coming out 
of her own mouth, sliding her fingers in his hair to grip him 
more tightly against her. She was definitely clean by the time 
she came, slow contractions that swelled in large waves and 
had her thighs shaking around his head, and that was when he 
asked, “Can I fuck you again?” 


She looked up at him, flushed and hazy with her orgasm, 
and bit her lip. She wanted to. She really wanted to have him 
on top of her, inside her, chest pushing her into the mattress 
and arms snaked around her body. That feeling of security, of 


finally belonging that seemed to get more intense the closer he 
got to her. 


“I want to.” Her hand came up to touch his arm, the one he 
was holding himself up on. “It’s just—I’m just sore, and I—” 


He immediately regretted asking. She could tell by how his 
body stilled before he got off her, as if to not crowd her, as if 
to give her space she didn’t want. 


“No,” she panicked. “It’s not that—” 


“Hey.” He noticed how flustered she was and bent down to 
kiss her. 


“I do want to—” 


“Olive.” He curled around her. His cock rubbed against her 
lower back, but he instantly angled his hips away. “You’re 
right. Let’s go to sleep.” 


“What? No.” She sat up, frowning. “I don’t want to go to 
sleep.” 


He was struggling, she could tell. Trying to hide his 
erection. Trying not to glance at her naked body. “Your flight 
was early this morning. You’re probably jet-lagged—” 


“But we only have one night.” One single night. One night 
for Olive to suspend the outside world. To avoid thinking 
about Tom, and what had happened earlier today, and the 
mysterious woman Adam was in love with. One night to forget 
that whatever feelings she had for him, they were not mutual. 


“Hey.” He reached up, pushing her hair behind her 
shoulder. “You don’t owe me anything. Let’s get some sleep 
and—” 


“We have one night.” Determined, she pressed her palm on 
his chest, straddling him. The cotton of his pants was soft 
against her folds. “I want the whole night.” She smiled down 
at him, forehead against his, her hair a curtain between them 


and the outside world. A sanctuary of sorts. He gripped her 
waist like he couldn’t help himself, pulling her against him, 
and oh, they fit so well together. “Come on, Adam. I know 
you’re old, but you can’t go to sleep just yet.” 


“I—” He seemed to forget what he was about to say the 
moment her hand slid inside his pants. His eyes closed, and he 
exhaled sharply, and—yes. Good. “Olive.” 


“Yes?” 


She kept on sliding down his body. And tugging at his 
pants. And he made some half-hearted efforts to stop her, but 
he didn’t seem to be fully in control, and in the end he let her 
take his remaining clothes off. She pulled her hair back and sat 
on her heels between his thighs. 


Adam tried to look away and failed. “You are so beautiful.” 
The words were low and hushed, as though they’d slipped out 
of his mouth. Loose and unbidden, just like everything else 
about this. 


“T’ve never done this,” she confessed. She didn’t feel shy, 
probably because this was Adam. 


“No. Come here.” 
“So it probably won’t be any good.” 
“You—Olive. You don’t have to. You shouldn’t.”’ 


“Noted.” She pressed a kiss against his hip, and he groaned 
as though she’d done something special. As though this was 
beyond anything. “But if you have any wishes.” 


“Olive. Pm going to—” Grunt. He was going to grunt, a 
rumbling noise coming from deep in his chest. She ran her 
nose on the skin of his abdomen, seeing his cock twitch with 
the corner of her eye. 


“I love the way you smell.” 


“Olive.” 


Slowly, precisely, she wrapped her hand around the base of 
his erection and studied it from underneath her eyelashes. The 
head was shiny already, and—she didn’t know much, but he 
seemed close. He seemed very hard, and above her his chest 
heaved and his lips parted and his skin flushed. He seemed 
like it wouldn’t take much, which . . . good. But also, Olive 
wanted her time with him. She wanted so much time with 
Adam. “Someone has done this to you, before? Right?” 


He nodded, like she’d expected he would. His hand fisted 
the sheets, trembling slightly. 


“Good. So you can tell me, if I mess it up.” 


She said the last word against the shaft, and it felt like they 
were oscillating, vibrating at some short-wave frequency that 
burst and shattered when she touched him for real. Before 
parting her lips on the head of his cock she looked up at him, 
gave him a small smile, and that seemed to do him in. His 
back arched. He groaned, and ordered her in hushed tones to 
please, give him a moment, go slow, not let him come, and 
Olive wondered if his spine was melting into the same liquid, 
scalding pleasure she’d felt earlier. 


It probably couldn’t have been more obvious, that she’d 
never done this. And yet it seemed to turn him on beyond 
belief. He clearly couldn’t help himself—he thrust forward, 
threaded his fingers in her hair, pressed her head down until 
her throat was tight around him. He groaned, and talked, and 
caught her eyes, as if constantly fascinated by the way she was 
looking up at him. He slurred raspy words, mumbling, “Olive, 
yes.” “Lick the .. .” “Take it just—deeper. Make me come.” 
She heard praises and endearments come out of his mouth— 
how good she was, how lovely, how perfect; obscenities about 
her lips and body and eyes, and maybe she would have been 
embarrassed, if it hadn’t been for the pleasure spilling rich 
from both of them, overflowing their brains. It felt natural, to 
have Adam ask for what he wanted. To give it to him. 


“Can I—?” Her teeth grazed the underside of the head, and 
he grunted abruptly. “In your mouth.” 


She only had to smile at him, and his pleasure looked 
nuclear, pounding through him and washing over his entire 
body. What Olive had felt earlier, white-hot and just shy of 
painful. She was still sucking gently when he regained control 
of his limbs and cupped her cheek. 


“The things I want to do to you. You have no idea.” 


“I think maybe I do.” She licked her lips. “Some, at least.” 
His eyes were glazed as he stroked the corner of her mouth, 
and Olive wondered how she could possibly be done with this, 
with him, in just a few hours. 


“I doubt it.” 


She leaned forward, hiding a smile into the crease of his 
thigh. “You can, you know.” She nibbled on the hard plane of 
his abdomen and then looked up at him. “Do them.” 


She was still smiling when he pulled her up to his chest, 
and for a few minutes they managed to sleep. 


IT REALLY WAS a nice hotel room, she supposed. The large 
windows, mostly. And the view of Boston after dark, the 
traffic and the clouds and the feeling that something was 
happening out there, something she didn’t need to be part of 
because she was here. With Adam. 


“What language is that?” it occurred to her to ask. He 
couldn’t quite look at her face, not with her head nestled under 
his chin, so he continued to draw patterns on her hip with his 
fingertips. 


“What?” 


“The book you’re reading. With the tiger on the cover. 
German?” 


“Dutch.” She felt his voice vibrate, from his chest and 
through her flesh. 


“Ts it a manual on taxidermy?” 


He pinched her hip, lightly, and she giggled. “Was it hard 
to learn? Dutch, I mean.” 


He inhaled the scent of her hair, thinking for a moment. 
“I’m not sure. I always knew it.” 


“Was it weird? Growing up with two languages?” 


“Not really. I mostly thought in Dutch until we moved back 
here.” 


“How old was that?” 
“Mmm. Nine?” 


It made her smile, the idea of child Adam. “Did you speak 
Dutch with your parents?” 


“No.” He paused. “There were au pairs, mostly. Lots of 
them.” 


Olive pushed herself up to look at him, resting her chin on 
her hands and her hands on his chest. She watched him watch 
her, enjoying the play of the streetlights on his strong face. He 
was always handsome, but now, in the witching hours, he took 
her breath away. 


“Were your parents busy?” 


He sighed. “They were very committed to their jobs. Not 
very good at making time for anything else.” 


She hummed softly, conjuring a mental image: five-year- 
old Adam showing a stick-figure drawing to tall, distracted 
parents in dark suits surrounded by secret agents speaking into 


their headsets. She knew nothing about diplomats. “Were you 
a happy child?” 


“It’s... complicated. It was a bit of a textbook upbringing. 
Only child of financially rich but emotionally poor parents. I 
could do whatever I wanted but had no one to do it with.” It 
sounded sad. Olive and her mom had always had very little, 
but she’d never felt alone. Until the cancer. 


“Except Holden?” 


He smiled. “Except Holden, but that was later. I think I was 
already set in my ways by then. I’d learned to entertain myself 
with .. . things. Hobbies. Activities. School. And when I was 
supposed to be with people, I was . . . antagonistic and 
unapproachable.” She rolled her eyes and bit softly into his 
skin, making him chuckle. “I’ve become like my parents,” he 
mused. “Exclusively committed to my job.” 


“That’s not true at all. You’re very good at making time for 
others. For me.” She smiled, but he looked away as if 
embarrassed, and she decided to change the topic. “The only 
thing I can say in Dutch is ‘ik hou van jou.” Her 
pronunciation must have been poor, because for a long 
moment Adam couldn’t parse it. Then he did, and his eyes 
widened. 


“My college roommate had a poster with ‘I love you’ 
written in every language,” Olive explained. “Right across 
from my bed. First thing I’d see every morning after waking 


up.” 
“And at the end of year four you knew every language?” 


“End of year one. She joined a sorority as a sophomore, 
which was for the best.” She lowered her gaze, nuzzled her 
face in his chest, and then looked back up at him. “It’s pretty 
stupid, if you think about it.” 


“Stupid?” 


“Who needs to know how to say ‘I love you’ in every 
language? People barely need it in one. Sometimes not even in 
one.” She smoothed his hair back with her fingers. “ ‘Where’s 
the restroom?’ on the other hand .. .” 


He leaned into her touch, as if soothed by it. “Waar is de 
WC?” 


Olive blinked. 
“That would be ‘Where’s the restroom?’” he explained. 


“Yeah, I figured. Just . . . your voice . . .” She cleared her 
throat. She’d been better off without knowing how attractive 
he sounded when speaking another language. “Anyway. That 
would be a useful poster.” She brushed her finger against his 
forehead. “What’s this from?” 


“My face?” 
“The little scar. The one above your eyebrow.” 
“Ah. Just a stupid fight.” 


“A fight?” She chuckled. “Did one of your grads try to kill 
you?” 


“Nah, I was a kid. Though I could see my grads pouring 
acetonitrile in my coffee.” 


“Oh, totally.” She nodded in agreement. “I have one, too.” 
She pulled her hair behind her shoulder and showed him the 
small, half-moon-shaped line right next to her temple. 


“T know.” 

“You know? About my scar?” 

He nodded. 

“When did you notice? It’s really faint.” 


He shrugged and began tracing it with his thumb. “What’s 
it from?” 


“I don’t remember. But my mom said that when I was four 
there was this huge snowstorm in Toronto. Inches upon inches 
of snow piling up, the most intense in five decades, you know 
the drill. And everyone knew it was coming, and she’d been 
preparing me for days, telling me that we might end up stuck 
at home for a few days. I was so excited about it that I ran 
outside and dove headfirst into the snow—except that I did it 
about half an hour after the storm had started, and ended up 
hitting my head on a stone.” She laughed softly, and so did 
Adam. It had been one of her mother’s favorite stories. And 
now Olive was the only person who could tell it. It lived in 
her, and no one else. “I miss the snow. California is beautiful, 
and I hate the cold. But I really miss the snow.” 


He continued stroking her scar, a faint smile on his lips. 
And then, when the silence had settled around them, he said, 
“Boston will have snow. Next year.” 


Her heart thudded. “Yeah.” Except that she wouldn’t be 
going to Boston, not anymore. She’d have to find another lab. 
Or not work in a lab at all. 


Adam’s hand traveled up her neck, closing gently around 
her nape. “There are good trails for hiking, where Holden and 
I used to go in grad school.” He hesitated before adding, “I’d 
love to take you.” 


She closed her eyes, and for a second she let herself 
imagine it. The black of Adam’s hair against the white snow 
and the deep greens of the trees. Her boots sinking into the soft 
ground. Cold air flowing inside her lungs, and a warm hand 
wrapping around her own. She could almost see the flakes, 
fluttering behind her eyelids. Bliss. 


“You'll be in California, though,” she said distractedly. 
A pause. Too long. 


Olive opened her eyes. “Adam?” 


He rolled his tongue inside his cheek, as if thinking 
carefully about his words. “There is a chance that Pll be 
moving to Boston.” 


She blinked at him, confused. Moving? He’d be moving? 
“What?” No. What was he saying? Adam was not going to 
leave Stanford, right? He’d never been—the flight risk had 
never been real. Right? 


Except he’d never said that. Olive thought back to their 
conversations, and—he’d complained about the department 
withholding his research funds, about them suspecting that he 
was going to leave, about the assumptions people had made 
because of his collaboration with Tom, but... he’d never said 
that they were wrong. He’d said that the frozen funds had been 
earmarked for research—for the current year. That’s why he’d 
wanted them released as soon as possible. 


“Harvard,” she whispered, feeling incredibly stupid. 
“You’re moving to Harvard.” 


“It’s not decided yet.” His hand was still wrapped around 
her neck, thumb swiping back and forth across the pulse at the 
base of her throat. “I’ve been asked to interview, but there’s no 
official offer.” 


“When? When will you interview?” she asked, but didn’t 
really need his answer. It was all starting to make sense in her 
head. “Tomorrow. You’re not going home.” He’d never said he 
would. He’d only told her he’d be leaving the conference 
early. Oh God. Stupid, Olive. Stupid. “You’re going to 
Harvard. To interview for the rest of the week.” 


“It was the only way to avoid making the department even 
more suspicious,” he explained. “The conference was a good 
cover.” 


She nodded. It wasn’t good—it was perfect. And God, she 
felt nauseous. And weak-kneed, even lying down. “They’ll 
offer you the position,” she murmured, even though he must 


already know. He was Adam Carlsen, after all. And he’d been 
asked to interview. They were courting him. 


“It’s not certain yet.” 


It was. Of course it was. “Why Harvard?” she blurted. 
““Why—why do you want to leave Stanford?” Her voice shook 
a little, even though she did her best to sound calm. 


“My parents live on the East Coast, and while I have my 
issues with them, they’re going to need me close sooner or 
later.” He paused, but Olive could tell that he wasn’t done. She 
braced herself. “The main reason is Tom. And the grant. I 
want to transition to doing more similar work, but that will 
only be possible if we show good results. Being in the same 
department as Tom would make us infinitely more productive. 
Professionally, moving’s a no-brainer.” 


She’d braced herself, but it still felt like a punch in the 
sternum that left her void of air, caused her stomach to twist 
and her heart to drop. Tom. This was about Tom. 


“Of course,” she whispered. It helped her voice sound 
firmer. “It makes sense.” 


“And I could help you acclimatize, too,” he offered, 
significantly more bashful. “If you want to. To Boston. To 
Tom’s lab. Show you around, if you . . . if you’re feeling 
lonely. Buy you that pumpkin stuff.” 


She couldn’t answer that. She really—she could not answer 
that. So she hung her head for a few moments, ordered herself 
to buck the hell up, and lifted it again to smile at him. 


She could do this. She would do this. “What time are you 
leaving tomorrow?” He was probably just moving to another 
hotel, closer to the Harvard campus. 


“Early.” 


“Okay.” She leaned forward and buried her face in his 
throat. They were not going to sleep, not one second. It would 
be such a waste. “You don’t have to wake me up, when you 
leave.” 


“You're not going to carry my bags downstairs?” 


She laughed into his neck and burrowed deeper into him. 
This, she thought, this was going to be their perfect night. And 
their last. 


Chapter fighten 


ef HYPOTHESIS: A heart will break even more easily than the 
weakest of hydrogen bonds. 


It wasn’t the sun high in the sky that woke her up, nor 
housekeeping—thanks to Adam, likely, and a Do Not Disturb 
sign on the door. What got Olive out of bed, even though she 
really, really didn’t want to face the day, was the frantic 
buzzing on the nightstand. 


She buried her face in the pillow, extended her arm to 
grope her way to her phone, and then brought it to her ear. 


“Yeah?” she bleated, only to find that it wasn’t a call but a 
very long string of notifications. It included one email from 
Dr. Aslan congratulating her on her talk and asking for the 
recording, two texts from Greg (Have u seen the multichannel 
pipette? Nvm found it.), one from Malcolm (call me when you see 
this), and... 


One hundred and forty-three from Anh. 


“What the... ?” She blinked at the screen, unlocked her 
phone, and started scrolling up. Could it be one hundred and 
forty-three reminders to wear sunscreen? 


Anh: O 

Anh: M 

Anh: G 

Anh: OMG 

Anh: Omg omg OMFG 


Anh: Where the hell are you 


Anh: OLIVE 

Anh: OLIVE LOUISE SMITH 

Anh: (JK I know you don’t have a middle name) 

Anh: (But if you did it would be Louise FIGHT ME you know im right) 
Anh: Where ARE U?!?!? 

Anh: Your missing so much YOU ARE MISSING SO 

Anh: WHERE THE HELL IS YOUR ROOM I'M COMING TO YOU 
Anh: OL we need to talk about this IN PERSON!!! 111I! 

Anh: Are you DEAD? 


Anh: You better be IT’S THE ONLY WAY I'LL FORGIVE YOU FOR 
MISSING THIS OL 


Anh: Ol is this real life is iT jUST FANTASY SJEGAJHSGFASF 
Anh: O0O000000000000000000000000000L 


Olive groaned, rubbed her face, and decided to skip the 
other 125 messages and text Anh her room number. She went 
into the bathroom and reached for her toothbrush, trying not to 
notice that the spot where Adam’s had been was now empty. 
Whatever Anh was freaking out about, Olive was likely going 
to be underwhelmed. Jeremy had Irish step-danced at the 
department social, or Chase had tied a cherry stem with his 
tongue. Great entertainment value, for sure, but Olive would 
survive missing either. 


She dried her face, thinking that she was doing a great job 
of not thinking of how sore she was; of how her body was 
buzzing, vibrating like it had no intention of stopping, not two, 
not three, not five hours from now; of the faint, comforting 
scent of Adam on her skin. 


Yeah. A great job. 


When she stepped out of the bathroom, someone was about 
to tear down the door. She opened it to find Anh and Malcolm, 


who hugged her and started talking so loudly and rapidly, she 
could barely make out the words—though she did catch the 
terms “paradigm-shifting,”’ “life-altering,” and “watershed 
moment in history.” 


They chattered their way to Olive’s unused bed and sat 
down. After a few more moments of overlapping babbling, 
Olive decided to intervene and lifted her hands. 


“Hold on.” She was already coming down with a headache. 
Today was going to be a nightmare, for so many reasons. 
“What happened?” 


“The weirdest thing,” Anh said. 
“Coolest,” Malcolm interrupted. “She means coolest.” 
“Where were you, OI? You said you were going to join us.” 


“Here. I just, um, was tired after my talk, and fell asleep 
and—” 


“Lame, Ol, very lame, but I have no time to berate you for 
your lameness because I need to catch you up with what 
happened last night—” 


“T should tell her,’ Malcolm gave Anh a scathing look. 
“Since it’s about me.” 


“Fair enough,” she conceded with a flourishing gesture. 


Malcolm smiled, pleased, and cleared his throat. “Ol, who 
have I been wanting to have sex with for the past several 
years?” 


“Uh...” She scratched her temple. Off the top of her head, 
she could name about thirty people. “Victoria Beckham?” 


“No. Well, yes. But no.” 
“David Beckham?” 
“Also yes. But no.” 


“The other Spice Girl? The one in the Adidas tracksuit—” 


“No. Okay, yes, but don’t focus on celebrities, focus on 
real life people—” 


“Holden Rodrigues,” Anh blurted out impatiently. “He 
hooked up with Rodrigues at the department social. Ol, it is 
with utmost regret that I must inform you that you have been 
dethroned and are no longer the president of the Hot for 
Teacher club. Will you retire in shame or accept the treasurer 
position?” 


Olive blinked. Several times. An inordinate amount of 
times. And then heard herself say, “Wow.” 


“Isn’t it the weirdest—” 
“Coolest, Anh,” Malcolm interjected. “Coolest.” 
“Things can be weird in a cool way.” 


“Right, but this is pure, one hundred percent cool, zero 
percent weird—” 


“Hold up,” Olive interrupted. Her headache was growing a 
size or two. “Holden is not even in the department. Why was 
he at the social?” 


“No idea, but you bring up an excellent point, which is that 
since he’s in pharmacology, we can do whatever we want 
without having to tell anyone.” 


Anh tilted her head. “Is that so?” 


“Yep. We checked Stanford’s socialization regulations on 
our way to CVS to get condoms. Basically foreplay.” He 
closed his eyes in bliss. “Will I ever step inside a pharmacy 
again without getting a boner?” 


Olive cleared her throat. “I’m so happy for you.” She really 
was. Though this did feel a bit weird. “How did it happen?” 


“I hit on him. It was glorious.” 


“He was shameless, Ol. And glorious. I took some 
pictures.” 


Malcolm gasped in outrage. “Okay, that’s illegal and I 
could sue you. But if I look good in them, do send them my 


99 


way. 
“Will do, babe. Now tell us about the sex.” 


The fact that Malcolm, usually very forward with the 
details of his sex life, just closed his eyes and smiled, spoke 
volumes. Anh and Olive exchanged a long, impressed glance. 


“And that’s not even the best part. He wants to see me 
again. Today. A date. He used the word ‘date’ unprompted.” 
He fell back on the mattress. “He’s so hot. And funny. And 
nice. A sweet, filthy beast.” 


Malcolm looked so happy, Olive couldn’t resist: she 
swallowed the lump that had taken residence in her throat 
sometime last night and jumped on the bed next to him, 
hugging him as tight as she could. Anh followed and did the 
same. 


“I’m so happy for you, Malcolm.” 
“Same.” Anh’s voice was muffled against his hair. 


“I am happy for me, too. I hope he’s serious. You know 
when I said I was training for gold? Well, Holden’s platinum.” 


“You should ask Carlsen, Ol,” Anh suggested. “If he knows 
what Holden’s intentions are.” 


She probably wasn’t going to have the opportunity anytime 
soon. “I will.” 


Malcolm shifted a bit and turned to Olive. “Did you really 
fall asleep last night? Or were you and Carlsen celebrating in 
unmentionable ways?” 


“Celebrating?” 


“I told Holden that I was worried about you, and he said 
that you guys were probably celebrating. Something about 
Carlsen’s funds being released? By the way, you never told me 
Carlsen and Holden were best friends—it seems like a piece of 
information you’d want to share with your Holden-Rodrigues- 
fan-club-founder-and-most-vocal-member roommate—” 


“Wait.” Olive sat up, wide-eyed. “The funds that were 
released, are they . . . the frozen ones? The ones Stanford was 
withholding?” 


“Maybe? Holden said something about the department 
chair finally easing up. I tried to pay attention, but talking 
about Carlsen is a bit of a buzzkill—no offense. Plus, I kept 
getting lost in Holden’s eyes.” 


“And his butt,” Anh added. 


“And his butt.” Malcolm sighed happily. “Such a nice butt. 
He has little dimples on his lower back.” 


“Oh my God, so does Jeremy! I want to bite them.” 
“Aren’t they the cutest?” 


Olive stopped listening and stood from the bed, grabbing 
her phone to read the date. 


September twenty-ninth. 
It was September twenty-ninth. 


She had known, of course. She had known for over a 
month that today was coming, but in the past week she’d been 
too busy fretting about her talk to focus on anything else, and 
Adam hadn’t reminded her. With everything that had happened 
in the past twenty-four hours, it was no surprise that he’d 
forgotten to mention that his funds had been released. But still. 
The implications of it were... 


She closed her eyes, shut tight, while Anh and Malcolm’s 
excited chattering kept rising in volume in the background. 


When she opened them, her phone lit up with a new 
notification. From Adam. 

Adam: | have interview meetings until 4:30, but I’m free for the 
night. Would you like to get dinner? There are several good restaurants 


near campus (though a shameful lack of conveyor belts). If you're not 
busy, | could show you around campus, maybe even Tom’s lab. 


Adam: No pressure, of course. 


It was almost two in the afternoon. Olive felt as though her 
bones weighed twice as much as the day before. She took a 
deep breath, straightened her shoulders, and began typing her 
reply to Adam. 


She knew what she had to do. 


SHE KNOCKED ON his door at five sharp, and he answered just a 
few seconds later, still dressed in slacks and a button-down 
that must have been his interview attire and... 


Smiling at her. Not one of those half-baked things she’d 
gotten used to, but a real, true smile. With dimples, and 
crinkles around his eyes, and genuine happiness to see her. It 
shattered her heart in a million pieces before he even spoke. 


“Olive.” 


She still hadn’t figured it out, why the way he said her 
name was so unique. There was something packed behind it, 
something that didn’t quite make it to the surface. A sense of 
possibilities. Of depth. Olive wondered if it was real, if she 
was hallucinating it, if he was aware. Olive wondered a lot of 
things, and then told herself to stop. It couldn’t matter less, 
now. 


“Come in.” 


It was an even fancier hotel, and Olive rolled her eyes, 
wondering why people felt the need to waste thousands of 
dollars in lodgings for Adam Carlsen when he barely paid 
attention to his surroundings. They should just give him a cot 
and donate the money to worthy causes. Endangered whales. 
Psoriasis. Olive. 


“I brought this—I’m assuming it’s yours.” She took a 
couple of steps toward him and held out a phone charger, 
letting the cable end dangle, making sure that Adam wouldn’t 
need to touch her. 


“It is. Thank you.” 


“It was behind the bedside lamp, probably why you forgot 
it.” She pressed her lips together. “Or maybe it’s old age. 
Maybe dementia has already set in. All those amyloid 
plaques.” 


He glared at her, and she tried not to smile, but she already 
was, and he was rolling his eyes and calling her a smart-ass, 
and— 


Here they were. Doing this, again. Dammit. 


She let her eyes wander away, because—no. Not anymore. 
“How was the interview?” 


“Good. Just day one, though.” 
“Of how many?” 


“Too many.” He sighed. “I have grant meetings with Tom 
scheduled, too.” 


Tom. Right. Of course. Of course—this was why she was 
here. To explain to him that— 


“Thank you for coming out,” he said, voice quiet and 
earnest. As though by hopping on a train and agreeing to see 
him, Olive had given him a great deal of pleasure. “I figured 
you might be busy with your friends.” 


She shook her head. “No. Anh’s out with Jeremy.” 


“Pm sorry,” he said, looking genuinely regretful for her, 
and it took Olive several moments to recall her lie, and his 
assumption that she was in love with Jeremy. Only a few 
weeks earlier, but it already seemed so long ago, when she 
hadn’t been able to imagine anything worse than Adam 
discovering her feelings for him. It sounded so foolish after 
everything that had happened in the past few days. She should 
really come clean, but what was the point now? Let Adam 
think what he liked. It would serve him better than the truth, 
after all. 


“And Malcolm is with . . . Holden.” 
“Ah, yes.” He nodded, looking exhausted. 


Olive briefly fantasized about Holden texting Adam the 
equivalent of what Olive and Anh had been subjected to for 
the past two hours, and smiled. “How bad is it?” 


“Bad?” 
“This thing between Malcolm and Holden?” 


“Ah.” Adam leaned his shoulder against the wall, folding 
his arms across his chest. “I think it can be very good. For 
Holden, at least. He really likes Malcolm.” 


“Did he tell you?” 


“He hasn’t shut up about it.” He rolled his eyes. “Did you 
know that Holden is secretly twelve?” 


She laughed. “So is Malcolm. He dates a lot, and he’s 
usually good at managing expectations, but this thing with 
Holden—I had a sandwich for lunch and he randomly 
volunteered that Holden is allergic to peanuts. It wasn’t even 
PB and J!” 


“He’s not allergic, he fakes it because he doesn’t like nuts.” 
He massaged his temple. “This morning I woke up to a haiku 


about Malcolm’s elbows. Holden had texted it at three a.m.” 
“Was it good?” 
He lifted one eyebrow, and she laughed again. 
“They are...” 


“The worst.” Adam shook his head. “But I think Holden 
might need it. Someone to care about, who also cares about 


99 


him. 


“Malcolm, too. I’m just . . . concerned that he might want 
more than Holden is willing to offer?” 


“Believe me, Holden is very ready to file taxes jointly.” 


“Good. I’m glad.” She smiled. And then felt her smile fade, 
just as quickly. “One-sided relationships are really . . . not 
good.” I would know. And maybe you would, too. 


He studied his own palm, undoubtedly thinking about the 
woman Holden had mentioned. “No. No, they’re not.” 


It was a weird kind of ache, the jealousy. Confusing, 
unfamiliar, not something she was used to. Half cutting, half 
disorienting and aimless, so different from the loneliness she’d 
felt since she was fifteen. Olive missed her mother every day, 
but with time she’d been able to harness her pain and turn it 
into motivation for her work. Into purpose. Jealousy, 
though . . . the misery of it didn’t come with any gain. Only 
restless thoughts, and something squeezing at her chest 
whenever her mind turned to Adam. 


“I need to ask you something,” he said. The seriousness of 
his tone made her look up. 


“Sure.” 


“The people you overheard at the conference 
yesterday ...” 


She stiffened. “T’d rather not—” 


“I won’t force you to do anything. But whoever they were, 
I want . . . I think you should consider filing a complaint.” 


Oh God. God. Was this some cruel joke? “You really like 
complaints, don’t you?” She laughed once, a weak attempt at 
humor. 


“I’m serious, Olive. And if you decide you want to do it, 
Pll help you however I can. I could come with you and talk 
with SBD’s organizers, or we could go through Stanford’s 
Title IX office—” 


“No. I... Adam, no. I’m not going to file a complaint.” 
She rubbed her eyes with the tips of her fingers, feeling as 
though this was one giant, painful prank. Except that Adam 
had no idea. He actually wanted to protect her, when all Olive 
wanted was... to protect him. “I’ve already decided. It would 
do more harm than good.” 


“I know why you think that. I felt the same during grad 
school, with my mentor. We all did. But there are ways to do 
it. Whoever this person is, they—” 


“Adam, I—” She ran one hand down her face. “I need you 
to drop this. Please.” 


He studied her, silent for several minutes, and then nodded. 
“Okay. Of course.” He pushed away from the wall and 
straightened, clearly unhappy to let the subject go but making 
an effort to do so. “Would you like to go to dinner? There’s a 
Mexican restaurant nearby. Or sushi—real sushi. And a movie 
theater. Maybe there are one or two movies playing in which 
horses don’t die.” 


“Pm not... Pm not hungry, actually.” 


“Oh.” His expression was teasing. Gentle. “I didn’t know 
that was possible.” 


“Me neither.” She chuckled weakly, and then forced herself 
to continue. “Today is September twenty-ninth.” 


A beat. Adam studied her, patient and curious. “It is.” 


She bit into her lower lip. “Do you know what the chair has 
decided about your funds?” 


“Oh, right. The funds will be unfrozen.” He seemed happy, 
his eyes brilliant in an almost boyish way. It broke her heart a 
little. “I meant to tell you tonight at dinner.” 


“That’s great.” She managed a smile, small and pitiful in 
her mounting anxiety. “That’s really great, Adam. I’m happy 
for you.” 


“Must have been your sunscreen skills.” 


“Yeah.” Her laugh sounded fake. “Ill have to put them on 
my CV. Fake girlfriend with extensive experience. Microsoft 
Office and excellent sunscreen skills. Available immediately, 
only serious callers.” 


“Not immediately.” He looked at her curiously. Tenderly. 
“Not for a while, I’d say.” 


The weight, the one that had been pressing into her 
stomach since she’d realized what needed to be done, sank 
heavier. Now—this was it. The coda. The moment it all ended. 
Olive could do this, and she would, and things would be all the 
better for it. 


“I think I should be.” She swallowed, and it was like acid 
down her throat. “Available.” She scanned his face, noticed his 
confusion, and clenched her fist in the hem of her sweater. 
“We gave ourselves a deadline, Adam. And we accomplished 
everything we wanted. Jeremy and Anh are solid—I doubt 
they even remember that Jeremy and I used to date. And your 
funds have been released, which is amazing. The truth is...” 


Her eyes stung. She closed them tight, managing to push 
the tears back. Barely. 


The truth, Adam, is that your friend, your collaborator, a 
person you clearly love and are close to, is horrid and 
despicable. He told me things that might be truths, or maybe 
lies—I dont know. I’m not sure. I’m not sure of anything 
anymore, and I would love to ask you, so badly. But I’m 
terrified that he might be right, and that you wont believe me. 
And I’m even more terrified that you will believe me, and that 
what I tell you will force you to give up something that is very 
important to you: your friendship and your work with him. I’m 
terrified of everything, as you can see. So, instead of telling 
you that truth, I will tell you another truth. A truth that, I think, 
will be best for you. A truth that will take me out of the 
equation, but will make its result better. Because I’m starting 
to wonder if this is what being in love is. Being okay with 
ripping yourself to shreds, so the other person can stay whole. 


She inhaled deeply. “The truth is, we did great. And it’s 
time we call it quits.” 


She could tell from how his lips parted, from his 
disoriented eyes searching hers, that he wasn’t yet parsing 
what she’d said. “I don’t think we’ll need to explicitly tell 
anyone,” she continued. “People won’t see us together, and 
after a while they’ll think that . . . that it didn’t work out. That 
we broke up. And maybe you . . .” This was the hardest part. 
But he deserved to hear it. He’d told her the same, after all, 
when he’d believed her in love with Jeremy. “I wish you all 
the best, Adam. At Harvard, and .. . with your real girlfriend. 
Whoever you may choose. I cannot imagine anyone not 
reciprocating your feelings.” 


She could pinpoint the exact moment it dawned on him. 
She could tease apart the feelings struggling in his face—the 
surprise, the confusion, a hint of stubbornness, a split second 
of vulnerability that all melted in a blank, empty expression. 
Then she could see his throat work. 


“Right,” he said. “Right.” He was staring at his shoes, 
absolutely motionless. Slowly accepting her words. 


Olive took a step back and rocked on her heels. Outside, an 
iPhone rang, and a few seconds later someone burst into 
laughter. Normal noises, on a normal day. Normal, all of this. 


“It’s for the best,” she said, because the silence between 
them—that, she just couldn’t stand. “It’s what we agreed on.” 


“Whatever you want.” His voice was hoarse, and he 
seemed . . . absent. Retreated to some place inside himself. 
“Whatever you need.” 


“I can’t thank you enough for everything you’ve done for 
me. Not just about Anh. When we met, I felt so alone, 
and...” For a moment she couldn’t continue. “Thank you for 
all the pumpkin spice, and for that Western blot, and for hiding 
your taxidermied squirrels when I visited, and...” 


She couldn’t bring herself to go on anymore, not without 
choking on her words. The stinging in her eyes was burning 
now, threatening to spill over, so she nodded once, decisively, 
a period to this dangling sentence with no end in sight. 


And that would have been it. It would have surely been the 
end. They would have left it at that, if Olive hadn’t passed him 
on her way to the door. If he hadn’t reached out and stopped 
her with a hand on her wrist. If he hadn’t immediately pulled 
that hand back and stared at it with an appalled expression, as 
if shocked that he’d dared to touch her without asking for 
permission first. 


If he hadn’t said, “Olive. If you ever need anything, 
anything at all. Anything. Whenever. You can come to me.” 
His jaw worked, like there were other words, words he was 
keeping inside. “I want you to come to me.” 


She almost didn’t register wiping wetness off her cheek 
with the back of her hand, or moving closer to him. It was his 


scent that jolted her alert—soap and something dark, subtle 
but oh so familiar. Her brain had him mapped out, stored away 
across all senses. Eyes to his almost smile, hands to his skin, 
the smell of him in her nostrils. She didn’t even need to think 
about what to do, just push up on her toes, press her fingers 
against his biceps, and kiss him gently on the cheek. His skin 
was soft and warm and a little prickly; unexpected, but not 
unwelcome. 


An apt goodbye, she thought. Appropriate. Acceptable. 


And so was his hand coming up to her lower back, pulling 
her into his body and stopping her from sliding back on her 
heels, or the way his head turned, until her lips were not 
brushing the skin of his cheek anymore. Her breath hitched, a 
chuff against the corner of his mouth, and for a few precious 
seconds she just savored it, the deep pleasure that ran through 
them both as they closed their eyes and let themselves just be, 
here, with each other. 


Quiet. Still. One last moment. 


Then Olive opened her mouth and turned her head, 
breathing against his lips, “Please.” 


Adam groaned deep in his chest. But she was the one who 
closed the space between them, who deepened the kiss, who 
combed her hands into his hair, short nails scraping against his 
scalp. She was the one who pulled him even closer, and he was 
the one who pushed her back against the wall and moaned into 
her mouth. 


It was frightening. Frightening, how good this felt. How 
easy it would be to never stop. To let time stretch and unbend, 
forget about everything else, and simply stay in this moment 
forever. 


But Adam pulled back first, holding her eyes as he tried to 
collect himself. 


“It was good, wasn’t it?” Olive asked, with a small, wistful 
smile. 


She wasn’t herself sure what she was referring to. Maybe 
his arms around her. Maybe this last kiss. Maybe everything 
else. The sunscreen, his ridiculous answers on his favorite 
color, the quiet conversations late at night. . . all of it had been 
so very good. 


“It was.” Adam’s voice sounded too deep to be his own. 
When he pressed his lips against her forehead one last time, 
she felt her love for him swell fuller than a river in flood. 


“I think I should leave,” she told him gently, without 
looking at him. He let her go wordlessly, so she did. 


When she heard the click of the door closing behind her, it 
was like falling from a great height. 


Chapter Nineteen 


ef HYPOTHESIS: When in doubt, asking a friend will save my 
ass. 


Olive spent the following day in the hotel, sleeping, crying, 
and doing the very thing that had gotten her into this mess to 
begin with: lying. She told Malcolm and Anh that she’d be 
busy with friends from college for the entire day, pulled the 
blackout curtains together, and then buried herself in her bed. 
Which, technically, was Adam’s bed. 


She didn’t let herself think about the situation too much. 
Something inside her—her heart, very possibly—was broken 
in several large pieces, not shattered as much as neatly 
snapped in half, and then in half again. All she could do was 
sit down amid the debris of her feelings and wallow. Sleeping 
through most of the day helped dull the pain a great deal. 
Numb, she was rapidly starting to realize, was good. 


She lied the day after, too. Feigned a last-minute request 
from Dr. Aslan when asked to join her friends at the 
conference or on excursions around Boston, and then took a 
deep, fortifying breath. She drew the curtains open, forced her 
blood to start flowing again (with fifty crunches, fifty jumping 
jacks, and fifty push-ups, though she cheated on the last by 
going on her knees), then showered and brushed her teeth for 
the first time in thirty-six hours. 


It wasn’t easy. Seeing Adam’s Biology Ninja T-shirt in the 
mirror made her tear up, but she reminded herself that she’d 
made her choice. She’d decided to put Adam’s well-being 
first, and she didn’t regret it. But she’d be damned if she let 


Tom Fucking Benton take credit for a project she had worked 
on for years. A project that meant the world to her. Maybe her 
life was nothing but a little sob story, but it was her little sob 


Story. 


Her heart may be broken, but her brain was doing just fine. 


Adam had said that the reason most professors hadn’t 
bothered to reply, perhaps even read her email, was that she 
was a student. So she followed his advice: she emailed Dr. 
Aslan and asked her to introduce Olive to all the researchers 
she’d previously contacted, plus the two people who’d been on 
her panel and had shown interest in her work. Dr. Aslan was 
close to retirement, and had more or less given up on 
producing science, but she was still a full professor at 
Stanford. It had to mean something. 


Then Olive googled extensively about research ethics, 
plagiarism, and theft of ideas. The issue was a little murky, 
given that Olive had—quite recklessly, she now realized— 
described all her protocols in detail in her report for Tom. But 
once she began examining the situation with a clearer head, 
she decided that it wasn’t as dire as she’d initially thought. 
The report she’d written, after all, was well-structured and 
thorough. With a few tweaks she could turn it into a scholarly 
publication. It would hopefully go quickly through peer 
review, and the findings would be credited under her name. 


What she decided to focus on was that despite all his 
insults and rude comments, Tom, one of the top cancer 
researchers in the United States, had expressed interest in 
stealing her research ideas. She took it as a very, very 
backhanded compliment. 


She spent the next several hours carefully avoiding 
thoughts of Adam and instead researching other potential 
scientists who might be able to support her the following year. 
It was a long shot, but she had to try. When someone knocked 


on her door, it was already the middle of the afternoon, and 
she’d added three new names to her list. She quickly put on 
clothes to answer, expecting housekeeping. When Anh and 
Malcolm stormed inside, she cursed herself for never checking 
the peephole. She truly deserved to be axed by a serial killer. 


“Okay,” Anh said, throwing herself onto Olive’s still-made 
bed, “you have two sentences to convince me that I shouldn’t 
be mad at you for forgetting to ask how my outreach event 
went.” 


“Shit!” Olive covered her mouth with her hand. “I am so 
sorry. How did it go?” 


“Perfect.” Anh’s eyes were shiny with happiness. “We had 
such great attendance and everyone loved it. We’re thinking of 
making this a yearly thing, and formally establishing an 
organization. Peer-to-peer mentoring! Hear this: every grad is 
assigned two undergrads. Once they get into grad school, they 
mentor two more undergrads each. And in ten years we take 
over the entire damn world.” 


Olive looked at her, speechless. “This is . . . you’re 
amazing.” 


“I am, aren’t I? Okay, now’s your turn to grovel. Aaand, 


99 


go. 

Olive opened her mouth, but for a long time nothing really 
came out. “I don’t really have an excuse. I was just busy 
with . .. something Dr. Aslan asked me to finish.” 


“This is ridiculous. You are in Boston. You should be out 
there in an Irish pub pretending you love the Red Sox and 
eating Dunkies, not doing work. For your boss.” 


“We’re technically here for a work conference,” Olive 
pointed out. 


“Conference shmonference.” Malcolm joined Anh on the 
bed. 


“Can we please go out, the three of us?” Anh begged. 
“Let’s do the Freedom Trail. With ice cream. And beer.” 


“Where’s Jeremy?” 


“Presenting his poster. And I’m bored.” Anh’s grin was 
impish. 
Olive was not in the mood for socializing, or beer, or 


freedom trails, but at some point she was going to have to 
learn to productively navigate society with a broken heart. 


She smiled and said, “Let me check my email, and then we 
can go.” She had, inexplicably, accumulated about fifteen 
messages in the thirty minutes since she’d last checked, only 
one of which wasn’t spam. 


Today, 3:11 p.m. 

FROM: Aysegul-Aslan@stanford.edu 

TO: Olive-Smith@stanford.edu 

SUBJECT: Reaching out to researchers for pancreatic cancer project 
Olive, 


I'd be happy to introduce you and ask scholars about opportunities 
for you in their labs. | agree that they might be more welcoming if 
the email comes from me. Send me your list, please. 


BTW, you still haven't sent the recording of your talk. | cannot 
wait to listen to it! 


Warmly, 
Aysegul Aslan, Ph.D. 


Olive did some mental calculations to determine whether it 
was polite to send the list and not the recording (probably not), 
sighed, and started AirDropping the file to her laptop. When 
she realized that it was several hours long, because she’d 
forgotten to stop her phone after her talk, her sigh morphed 
into a groan. “This’ll take a while, guys. I have to send Dr. 
Aslan an audio file, and I'll need to edit it beforehand.” 


“Fine,” Anh huffed. “Malcolm, would you like to entertain 
us with tales of your date with Holden?” 


“Okay, first, he wore the cutest baby-blue button-down.” 
“Baby-blue?” 


“Shut your mouth with that skeptical tone. Then he got me 
one flower.” 


“Where did he get the flower?” 
“Not sure.” 


Olive poked around the MP3, trying to figure out where to 
cut the file. The ending was just minute after minute of 
silence, from when she’d left her phone in the hotel room. 
“Maybe he stole it from the buffet?” she said absentmindedly. 
“I think I saw pink carnations downstairs.” 


“Was it a pink carnation?” 
“Maybe.” 
Anh cackled. “And they say romance is dead.” 


“Shut up. Then, toward the beginning of the date, 
something happened. Something catastrophic that could only 
ever happen to me, given that my entire damn family is 
obsessed with science and, therefore, attends all the 
conferences. All of them.” 


“No. Tell me you didn’t—” 


“Yes. When we got to the restaurant, we found my mother, 
father, uncle, and grandfather. Who insisted on us joining 
them. Which means that my first date with Holden was a 
freaking Thanksgiving dinner.” 


Olive looked up from her laptop and shared an appalled 
look with Anh. “How bad was it?” 


“Funny that you ask, because it is with the utmost 
disconcert that I must say: it was fucking spectacular. They 


loved him—because he’s a badass scientist and because he is 
smoother than an organic smoothie—and in the span of two 
hours he somehow managed to help me convince my parents 
that my plan of being an industry scientist is bomb. I’m not 
kidding—this morning my mother called and was all about 
how I have grown as a person and am finally in control of my 
future and how my dating choices reflect that. She said that 
Dad agrees. Can you believe it? Anyway. After dinner we got 
ice cream and then we went back to Holden’s hotel room and 
sixty-nined like the world was about to end—” 


“A girl like you. Who figured out so early in her academic 
career that fucking well-known, successful scholars is how to 
get ahead. You fucked Adam, didnt you? We both know you’re 
going to fuck me for the same reas—”’ 


Olive slammed the spacebar, immediately stopping the 
replay of the recording. Her heart was pounding in her chest— 
first from confusion, then from the realization of what she’d 
inadvertently recorded, and finally from anger at hearing the 
words again. She brought a trembling hand to her lips, trying 
to purge Tom’s voice from her head. She had spent two days 
trying to recover, and now— 


“The hell was that?” Malcolm asked. 


“Ol?” Anh’s tentative voice reminded her that she was not 
alone in the room. She looked up and found that her friends 
had sat up. They were staring at her, wide-eyed with concern 
and shock. 


Olive shook her head. She didn’t want to—no, she didn’t 
have the strength to explain. “Nothing. Just...” 


“I recognize it,” Anh said, coming to sit next to her. “I 
recognize the voice. From that talk we went to.” She paused, 
searching Olive’s eyes. “That was Tom Benton, wasn’t it?” 


“What the—’ Malcolm stood. There was real alarm 
blooming in his voice. Anger, too. “Ol, why do you have a 


recording of Tom Benton saying shit like that? What 
happened?” 


Olive looked up at him, then at Anh, then at him again. 
They were studying her with worried, incredulous expressions. 
Anh must have taken Olive’s hand at some point. She told 
herself that she needed to be strong, to be pragmatic, to be 
numb, but... 


“I just...” 


She tried. She really did try. But her face crumpled, and the 
last few days crashed and burned into her. Olive leaned 
forward, buried her head in Anh’s lap, and let herself burst into 
tears. 


OLIVE HAD NO intention of hearing Tom spout his poison again, 
so she gave her friends her headphones, went to the bathroom, 
and let the faucet run until they’d finished listening. It took 
less than ten minutes, but she sobbed throughout. When 
Malcolm and Anh came in, they sat next to her on the floor. 
Anh was crying, too, fat, angry drops sliding down her cheeks. 


At least there’s a bathtub we can flood, Olive thought while 
handing her the toilet paper roll she’d been hoarding. 


“He’s the most disgusting, detestable, shameful, disgraceful 
human being,’ Malcolm said. “I hope he has explosive 
diarrhea as we speak. I hope he gets genital warts. I hope he 
has to live saddled by the largest, most painful hemorrhoid in 
the universe. I hope he—” 


Anh interrupted him. “Does Adam know?” 
Olive shook her head. 


“You need to tell him. And then the two of you need to 
report Benton’s ass and get him kicked out of academia.” 


“No, I... I can’t.” 


“Ol, listen to me. What Tom said is sexual harassment. 
There is no way Adam wouldn’t believe you—not to mention 
that you have a recording.” 


“It doesn’t matter.” 
“Of course it does!” 


Olive wiped her cheeks with her palms. “If I tell Adam, 
he’s not going to want to collaborate with Tom anymore, and 
the project they’re working on is too important to him. Not to 
mention that he wants to move to Harvard next year, and—” 


Anh snorted. “No, he doesn’t.” 
“Yes. He told me that—” 


“Ol, Pve seen the way he looks at you. He’s head over feet. 
There is no way he’ll want to move to Boston if you’re not 
going—and I’m sure as hell not letting you go work for this 
dipshit . . . What?” Her eyes darted from Olive to Malcolm, 
who were exchanging a long glance. “Why are you guys 
looking at each other like that? And why are you making your 
inside-joke faces?” 


Malcolm sighed, pinching the bridge of his nose. “Okay 
Anh, listen carefully. And before you ask—no, I’m not making 
this up. This is real life.” He took a deep breath before starting. 
“Carlsen and Olive never dated. They pretended so you’d 
believe that Olive wasn’t into Jeremy anymore—which she 
never was in the first place. Not sure what Carlsen was getting 
out of the arrangement, I forgot to ask. But halfway through 
the fake-dating Olive caught feelings for Carlsen, proceeded to 
lie to him about it, and pretended to be in love with someone 
else. But then .. .” He gave Olive a side glance. “Well. I didn’t 
want to be nosy, but judging from the fact that the other day 


only one bed in this hotel room was unmade, I’m pretty sure 
there have been some... recent developments.” 


It was so painfully accurate, Olive had to bury her face in 
her knees. Just in time to hear Anh say, “This is not real life.” 


“Tt 1s.” 


“Nuh-uh. This is a Hallmark movie. Or a poorly written 
young adult novel. That will not sell well. Olive, tell Malcolm 
to keep his day job, he’ll never make it as a writer.” 


Olive made herself look up, and Anh’s frown was the 
deepest she’d ever seen. “It’s true, Anh. I am so sorry I lied to 
you. I didn’t want to, but—” 


“You fake-dated Adam Carlsen?” 

Olive nodded. 

“God, I knew that kiss was weird.” 

She lifted her hands defensively. “Anh, I’m sorry—” 
“You fake-dated Adam. Fucking. Carlsen?” 

“It seemed like a good idea, and—” 


“But I saw you kiss him! In the biology building parking 
lot!” 


“Only because you forced me to—” 
“But you sat on his lap!” 


“Once again, you forced me to—not the coolest moment in 
our friendship, by the way—” 


“But you put sunscreen on him! In front of at least one 
hundred people!” 


“Only because someone put me up to it. Do you sense a 
pattern?” 


Anh shook her head, as if suddenly appalled at her own 
actions. “I just—you guys looked so good together! It was so 


obvious from the way Adam stared at you that he was wild 
about you. And the opposite—you looked at him like he was 
the only guy on earth and then—it always seemed like you 
were forcing yourself to hold back on him, and I wanted you 
to know that you could express your feelings if you wanted to 
—I really thought I was helping you, and—you fake-dated 
Adam Carlsen?” 


Olive sighed. “Listen, I’m sorry I lied. Please, don’t hate 
me, I—” 


“I don’t hate you.” 
Oh? “You... don’t?” 


“Of course not.” Anh was indignant. “I low-key hate myself 
for forcing you to do all that stuff. Well, maybe not ‘hate,’ but 
Pd write myself a strongly worded email. And I’m incredibly 
flattered that you’d do something like that for me. I mean, it 
was misguided, and ridiculous, and needlessly convoluted, and 
you’re a living, breathing, rom-com trope machine, and... 
God, Ol, you’re such an idiot. But a very lovable idiot, and my 
idiot.” She shook her head, incredulous, but squeezed her hand 
on Olive’s knee and glanced at Malcolm. “Wait. Is your thing 
with Rodrigues real? Or are you two pretending to bone so a 
judge will give him custody of his recently orphaned 
godchildren?” 


“Very real.” Malcolm’s smile was smug. “We fuck like 
bunnies.” 


“Fantastic. Well, Ol, we’ll talk about this more. A lot more. 
We’ll probably only talk about the greatest fake-dating event 
of the twenty-first century for millennia to come, but for now 
we should focus on Tom, and . . . it changes nothing, whether 
you and Adam are together. I still think he’d want to know. Id 
want to know. Ol, if the situation were inverted, if you were 
the one who stood to lose something and Adam had been 
sexually harassed—” 


“I haven’t.” 


“Yes, Ol, you have.” Anh’s eyes were earnest, burning into 
hers, and it occurred to Olive then, the enormity of what had 
happened. Of what Tom had done. 


She took a shuddering breath. “If the situation were 
inverted, I would want to know. But it’s different.” 


“Why is it different?” 


Because I’m in love with Adam. And hes not in love with 
me. Olive massaged her temples, trying to think against the 
mounting headache. “I don’t want to take something he loves 
away from him. Adam respects and admires Tom, and I know 
Tom’s had Adam’s back in the past. Maybe he’s better off not 
knowing.” 


“If only there were a way to find out what Adam would 
prefer,” Malcolm said. 


Olive sniffled in response. “Yeah.” 


“If only there were someone who knows Adam very well 
that we might ask,” Malcolm said, louder this time. 


“Yeah,” Anh repeated, “that would be great. But there isn’t, 


99 


SsO— 


“If only there were someone in this room who recently 
started dating Adam’s closest friend of nearly three decades,” 
Malcolm near-yelled, full of passive-aggressive indignity, and 
Anh and Olive exchanged a wide-eyed look. 


“Holden!” 
“You could ask Holden for advice!” 


Malcolm huffed. “You two can be so smart and yet so 
slow.” 


Olive suddenly recalled something. “Holden hates Tom.” 


“Uh? Why does he hate him?” 


“I don’t know.” She shrugged. “Adam wrote it off as some 
odd personality quirk of Holden’s, but—” 


“Hey. My man’s personality is perfect.” 
“Maybe there is something else?” 


Anh nodded energetically. “Malcolm, where can Olive find 
Holden right this minute?” 


“I don’t know. But’—he tapped his phone with a smug 
smile—“I happen to have his number right here.” 


HOLDEN (OR HOLDEN BubbleButt, as Malcolm had saved him in 
his contacts) was just finishing up his talk. Olive caught the 
last five minutes of it—something about crystallography she 
neither understood nor wanted to—and was totally unsurprised 
by how smooth and charismatic a speaker he was. She 
approached him on the podium once he was done answering 
questions, and he smiled when he noticed her walk up the 
stairs, seeming genuinely happy to see her. 


“Olive. My new roommate-in-law!” 


“Right. Yes. Um, great talk.” She ordered herself to stop 
wringing her hands. “I wanted to ask you a question. . .” 


“Is it about the nucleic acids in the fourth slide? Because I 
totally BS’d my way through them. My Ph.D. student made 
the figure, and she’s way smarter than me.” 


“No. The question is about Adam—” 
Holden’s expression brightened. 
“Well, actually, it’s about Tom Benton.” 


It darkened just as quickly. “What about Tom?” 


Right. What about Tom, precisely? Olive wasn’t quite sure 
how to approach the topic. She wasn’t even sure what she 
meant to ask. Sure, she could have barfed up her entire life 
story for Holden and begged him to fix this mess for her, but 
somehow it didn’t seem like a good idea. She racked her brain 
for a moment, and then landed on: “Did you know that Adam 
is thinking about moving to Boston?” 


“Yeah.” Holden rolled his eyes and pointed at the tall 
windows. There were large, ominous clouds threatening to 
explode with torrential rain. The wind, already chilly in 
September, was shaking a lonely hickory tree. “Who wouldn t 
want to move here from California?” he scoffed. 


Olive liked the idea of seasons, but she kept the thought to 
herself. “Do you think . . . Do you think he’d be happy here?” 


Holden studied her intensely for a minute. “You know, you 
were already my favorite girlfriend of Adam’s—not that there 
were many; you’re the only woman who could compete with 
computational modeling in about a decade—but that question 
wins you a lifelong number-one plaque.” He pondered the 
matter for a minute. “I think Adam could be happy here—in 
his own way, of course. Broodingly, unenthusiastically happy. 
But yes, happy. Provided that you are here, too.” 


Olive had to stop herself from snorting. 
“Provided that Tom behaves.” 


“Why do you say that? About Tom? I. . . I don’t mean to 
pry, but you told me to watch my back with him in Stanford. 
You... don’t like him?” 


He sighed. “It’s not that I don’t like him—even though I 
don’t. It’s more that I don’t trust him.” 


“Why, though? Adam told me about the things Tom did for 
him when your adviser was abusive.” 


“See, this is where a big part of my mistrust comes in.” 
Holden worried at his lower lip, as if deciding whether and 
how to continue. “Did Tom intercede to save Adam’s ass on 
numerous occasions? Sure. It’s undeniable. But how did those 
occasions come about to begin with? Our adviser was a piece 
of work, but he was not a micromanager. By the time we 
joined his lab, he was too busy being a famous asshole to 
know what was going on in day-to-day lab business. Which is 
why he had postdocs like Tom mentor grad students like 
Adam and me and de facto run the lab. And yet, he knew 
about every single minor screwup of Adam’s. Every few 
weeks he’d come in, tell Adam that he was a failure of a 
human being for minor stuff like switching reagents or 
dropping a beaker, and then Tom, our adviser’s most-trusted 
postdoc, would publicly intervene on behalf of Adam and save 
the day. The pattern was eerily specific, and only for Adam— 
who was by far the most promising student in our program. 
Destined for greatness and all that. Initially, it made me a bit 
suspicious that Tom was purposefully sabotaging Adam. But 
in recent years I’ve been wondering if what he wanted was 
something else altogether. . . .” 


“Did you tell Adam?” 


“Yes. But I had no proof, and Adam . . . well, you know 
him. He is stubbornly, unwaveringly loyal, and he was more 
than a little grateful to Tom.” He shrugged. “They ended up 
becoming bros, and they’ve been close friends ever since.” 


“Did it bother you?” 


“Not per se, no. I realize I might sound jealous of their 
friendship, but the truth is that Adam has always been too 
focused and single-minded to have many friends. I’d have 
been happy for him, truly. But Tom. . .” 


Olive nodded. Yeah. Tom. “Why would he do this? This... 
weird vendetta against Adam?” 


Holden sighed. “This is why Adam dismissed my concerns. 
There really isn’t an obvious reason. The truth is, I don’t think 
Tom hates Adam. Or at least, I don’t think it’s that simple. But 
I do believe that Tom is smart, and very, very cunning. That 
there probably is some jealousy involved, some desire to take 
advantage of Adam, to maybe control or have power over him. 
Adam tends to downplay his accomplishments, but he’s one of 
the best scientists of our generation. Having influence over 
him . . . that’s a privilege, and no small feat.” 


“Yeah.” She nodded again. The question, the one she’d 
come here to ask, was starting to take shape in her mind. 
“Knowing all of this. Knowing how important Tom is to 
Adam, if you had proof of . . . of how Tom really is, would 
you show Adam?” 


To his credit, Holden didn’t ask what the proof was, or 
proof of what. He scanned Olive’s face with an intent, 
thoughtful expression, and when he spoke, his words were 
careful. 


“I can’t answer that for you. I don’t think I should.” He 
drummed his fingers on the podium, as if deep in thought. 
“But I do want to tell you three things. The first you probably 
already know: Adam is first and foremost a scientist. So am I, 
and so are you. And good science only happens when we draw 
conclusions based on all available evidence—not just the ones 
that are easy, or that confirm our hypotheses. Wouldn’t you 
agree?” 


Olive nodded, and he continued. 


“The second is something you may or may not be aware of, 
because it has to do with politics and academia, which are not 
easy to fully grasp until you find yourself sitting through five- 
hour-long faculty meetings every other week. But here’s the 
deal: the collaboration between Adam and Tom benefits Tom 
more than it does Adam. Which is why Adam is the main 


investigator of the grant they were awarded. Tom is . . . well, 
replaceable. Don’t get me wrong, he’s a very good scientist, 
but most of his fame is due to him having been our former 
adviser’s best and brightest. He inherited a lab that was an 
already well-oiled machine and kept it going. Adam created 
his own research line from the ground up, and. . . I think he 
tends to forget how good he is. Which 1s probably for the best, 
because he’s already pretty insufferable.” He huffed. “Can you 
imagine if he had a big ego, too?” 


Olive laughed at that, and the sound came out oddly wet. 
When she raised her hands to her cheeks, she was not 
surprised to find them glistening. Apparently, weeping silently 
was her new baseline state. 


“The last thing,” Holden continued, unbothered by the 
waterworks, “is something you probably do not know.” He 
paused. “Adam has been recruited by a lot of institutions in the 
past. A lot. He’s been offered money, prestigious positions, 
unlimited access to facilities and equipment. That includes 
Harvard—this year was not their first attempt at bringing him 
in. But it’s the first time he’s agreed to interview. And he only 
agreed after you decided to go work in Tom’s lab.” He gave 
her a gentle smile, and then looked away, beginning to collect 
his things and slide them inside his backpack. “Make of that 
what you will, Olive.” 


Chapter Twenty 


ef HYPOTHESIS: People who cross me will come to regret it. 


She had to lie. 
Again. 


It was becoming a bit of a habit, and while she spun an 
elaborate tale for the secretary of MHarvard’s biology 
department, one in which she was a grad student of Dr. 
Carlsen’s who needed to track him down immediately to relay 
a crucial message in person, she swore to herself that this 
would be the last time. It was too stressful. Too difficult. Not 
worth the strain on her cardiovascular and psychophysical 
health. 


Plus, she sucked at it. The department secretary didn’t look 
like she believed a word of what Olive said, but she must have 
decided that there was no harm in telling her where the 
biology faculty had taken Adam out for dinner—according to 
Yelp, a fancy restaurant that was less than a ten-minute Uber 
ride away. Olive looked down at her ripped jeans and lilac 
Converse and wondered if they’d let her in. Then she 
wondered if Adam would be mad. Then she wondered if she 
was making a mistake and screwing up her own life, Adam’s 
life, her Uber driver’s life. She was very tempted to change her 
destination to the conference hotel when the car pulled up to 
the curb, and the driver—Sarah Helen, according to the app— 
turned around with a smile. “Here we are.” 


“Thank you.” Olive started getting out of the passenger 
seat and found that she couldn’t move her legs. 


“Are you okay?” Sarah Helen asked. 
“Yeah. Just, un...” 

“Are you gonna puke in my car?” 

Olive shook her head. No. Yes. “Maybe?” 
“Don’t, or Pll destroy your rating.” 


Olive nodded and tried to slide out of the seat. Her limbs 
were still nonresponsive. 


Sarah Helen frowned. “Hey, what’s wrong?” 


“I just . . .” There was a lump in her throat. “I need to do a 
thing. That I don’t want to do.” 


Sarah Helen hummed. “Is it a work thing, or a love thing?” 
“Uh... both.” 


“Yikes.” Sarah Helen scrunched up her nose. “Double 
threat. Can you put it off?” 


“No, not really.” 
“Can you ask someone else to do it for you?” 
“No.” 


“Can you change your name, cauterize your fingertips, 
enter the witness protection program, and disappear?” 


“Um, not sure. I’m not an American citizen, though.” 


“Probably no, then. Can you say ‘fuck it’ and deal with the 
consequences?” 


Olive closed her eyes and thought about it. What, exactly, 
would the consequences be if she didn’t do what she was 
planning to? Tom would be free to keep on being an absolute 
piece of shit, for one. And Adam would never know that he 
was being taken advantage of. He would move to Boston. And 
Olive would never have a chance to talk to him again, and all 
that he’d meant to her would end... 


In a lie. 


A lie, after a lot of lies. So many lies she’d told, so many 
true things she could have said but never did, all because she’d 
been too scared of the truth, of driving the people she loved 
away from her. All because she’d been afraid to lose them. All 
because she hadn’t wanted to be alone again. 


Well, the lying hadn’t worked out too well. In fact, it had 
downright sucked lately. Time for plan B, then. 


Time for some truth. 
“No. I don’t want to deal with the consequences.” 


Sarah Helen smiled. “Then, my friend, you better go do 
your thing.” She pressed a button, and the passenger door 
unlocked with a clunk. “And you better give me a perfect 
rating. For the free psychotherapy.” 


This time, Olive managed to get out of the car. She tipped 
Sarah Helen 150 percent, took a deep breath, and made her 
way into the restaurant. 


SHE FOUND ADAM immediately. He was big, after all, and the 
restaurant was not, which made for a pretty quick search. Not 
to mention that he was sitting with about ten people who 
looked a lot like very serious Harvard professors. And, of 
course, Tom. 


Fuck my life, she thought, slipping past the busy hostess 
and walking toward Adam. She figured that her bright red 
duffle coat would attract his attention, then she’d gesticulate 
for him to check his phone, and text him to please, please, 
please give her five minutes of his time when dinner was over. 
She figured that telling him tonight was the best option—his 
interview would be over tomorrow, and he’d be able to make 


his decision with the truth at his disposal. She figured her plan 
might work. 


She had not figured that Adam would notice her while in 
conversation with a young, beautiful faculty member. She had 
not figured that he’d suddenly stop speaking, eyes widening 
and lips parting; that he’d mutter “Excuse me” while staring at 
Olive and stand from the table, ignoring the curious looks in 
his direction; that he’d march to the entrance, where Olive 
was, with quick, long strides and a concerned expression. 


“Olive, are you okay?” he asked her, and— 


Oh. His voice. And his eyes. And the way his hands came 
up, as if to touch her, to make sure that she was intact and 
really there—though right before his fingers could close 
around her biceps he hesitated and let them fall back to his 
sides. 


It broke her heart a little. 


“I’m fine.” She attempted a smile. “I... I’m sorry to 
interrupt this. I know it’s important, that you want to move to 
Boston, and—this is inappropriate. But it’s now or never, and I 
wasn’t sure if I’d have the courage to . . .” She was rambling. 
So she took a deep breath and started again. “I need to tell you 
something. Something that happened. With—” 


“Hey, Olive.” 


Tom. But of course. “Hi, Tom.” Olive held Adam’s gaze 
and didn’t look at him. He did not deserve to be looked at. 
“Can you give us a minute of privacy?” 


She could see his oily, fake smile with the corner of her 
eye. “Olive, I know you’re young and don’t know how these 
things work, but Adam’s here to interview for a very important 
position, and he can’t just—” 


“Leave,” Adam ordered, voice low and cold. 


Olive closed her eyes and nodded, taking a step back. Fine. 
It was fine. It was Adam’s right not to talk to her. “Okay. I’m 
sorry, I—” 


“Not you. Tom, leave us.” 
Oh. Oh. Well, then. 


“Dude,” Tom said, sounding amused, “you can’t just get up 
from the table in the middle of an interview dinner and—” 


“Leave,” Adam repeated. 


Tom laughed, brazen. “No. Not unless you’re coming with 
me. We’re collaborators, and if you act like an asshole during 
a dinner with my department because of some student you’re 
screwing, it will reflect poorly on me. You need to come back 
to the table and—” 


“A pretty girl like you should know the score by now. Dont 
lie to me and say you didnt pick out a dress that short for my 
benefit. Nice legs, by the way. I can see why Adam 5s wasting 
his time with you.’ 


J 


Neither Adam nor Tom had seen Olive take out her phone, 
or press Play. They both struggled for a second, confused— 
they’d clearly heard the words but were unsure where they 
came from. Until the recording restarted. 


“Olive. You dont think I accepted you into my lab because 
you are good, do you? A girl like you. Who figured out so 
early in her academic career that fucking well-known, 
successful scholars is how to get ahead. You fucked Adam, 
didn t you? We both know you're going to fuck me for the same 


J 


reason.’ 


“What the—” Tom took a step forward, hand extended to 
grab the phone from Olive. He didn’t get far, because Adam 
pushed him away with a palm on his chest, making him 
stumble several steps back. 


He still wasn’t looking at Tom. And not at Olive, either. He 
was staring down at her phone, something dark and dangerous 
and frighteningly still in his expression. She should have 
probably been scared. Maybe she was, a little. 


“vou re telling me you thought your pitiful abstract was 
selected for a talk because of its quality and scientific 
importance? Someone here has a very high opinion of herself, 
considering that her research is useless and derivative and 
that she can barely put together two words without stuttering 
like an idiot—”’ 


“It was him,” Adam whispered. His voice was low, barely a 
whisper, deceptively calm. His eyes, unreadable. “It was Tom. 
The reason you were crying.” 


Olive could only nod. In the background, Tom’s recorded 
voice droned on and on. Talking about how mediocre she was. 
How Adam would never believe her. Calling her names. 


“This is ridiculous.” Tom was coming closer again, 
reattempting to take the phone away. “I’m not sure what this 
bitch’s problem is, but she’s clearly—” 


Adam exploded so fast, she didn’t even see him move. One 
moment he stood in front of her, and the next he was pinning 
Tom against the wall. 


“Pm going to kill you,” he gritted out, little more than a 
growl. “If you say another word about the woman I love, if 
you look at her, if you even think about her—I’m going to 
fucking kill you.” 


“Adam—” Tom choked out. 
“Actually, I will kill you anyway.” 


People were running toward them. The hostess, a waiter, a 
few faculty members from Adam’s table. They were forming a 
crowd, yelling in confusion and trying to pull Adam off Tom 
—with no success. Olive’s mind went to Adam pushing 


Cherie’s truck, and she almost laughed in a moment of 
hysteria. Almost. 


“Adam,” she called. Her voice was barely audible in the 
chaos going on around them, but it was what got through to 
him. He turned to look at her, and there were entire worlds in 
his eyes. “Adam, don’t,” she whispered. “He’s not worth it.” 


Just like that, Adam took a step back and let Tom go. An 
elderly gentleman—probably a Harvard dean—began laying 
into him, asking for explanations, telling him how 
unacceptable his behavior was. Adam ignored him, and 
everyone else. He headed straight for Olive, and— 


He cradled her head with both hands, fingers sliding 
through her hair and holding her tight as he lowered his 
forehead to hers. He was warm, and smelled like himself, like 
safe and home. His thumbs swept through the mess of tears on 
her cheeks. “I’m sorry. I’m so sorry. I didn’t know, and I’m 
sorry, I’m sorry, I’m sorry—” 


“It’s not your fault,” she managed to mumble, but he didn’t 
seem to hear her. 


“Tm sorry. ’m—” 


“Dr. Carlsen,” a male voice boomed loudly from behind 
them, and she felt Adam’s body stiffen against hers. “I demand 
an explanation.” 


Adam paid no heed to the man, and kept holding Olive. 
“Dr. Carlsen,” he repeated, “this is unacceptable—” 
“Adam,” Olive whispered. “You have to answer him.” 


Adam exhaled. Then he pressed a long, lingering kiss to 
Olive’s forehead before reluctantly disentangling himself. 
When she was finally able to get a good look at him, he 
seemed more like his usual self. 


Calm. Angry at the entire world. In charge. 


“Send me that recording immediately,” he murmured at 
her. She nodded, and he turned to the elderly man who’d just 
approached them. “We need to talk. Privately. Your office?” 
The other man looked shocked and offended, but he nodded 
stiffly. Behind him, Tom was making a fuss, and Adam 
clenched his jaw. “Keep him away from me.” He turned to 
Olive before leaving, bending closer to her and lowering his 
voice. His palm was warm against her elbow. 


“I am going to take care of this,” he told her. There was 
something determined, earnest in his eyes. Olive had never felt 
safer, or more loved. “And then [ll come find you, and Ill 
take care of you.” 


Chapter Twonty- Orne 


ef HYPOTHESIS: Wearing expired contact lenses will cause 
bacterial and/or fungal infections that will have repercussions 
for years to come. 


“Holden sent a message for you.” 


Olive looked away from the window and to Malcolm, 
who’d turned off airplane mode the second they’d landed in 
Charlotte for their layover. “Holden?” 


“Yeah. Well, it’s technically from Carlsen.” 
Her heart skipped a beat. 


“He lost his phone charger and can’t text you, but he and 
Holden are on their way back to SFO.” 


“Ah.” She nodded, feeling a small rush of relief. That 
explained Adam’s silence. He hadn’t been in touch since last 
night. She’d worried that he’d been arrested and was 
pondering emptying her savings account to help cover his bail. 
All twelve dollars and sixteen cents. “Where’s their layover?” 


“No layover.” Malcolm rolled his eyes. “Direct flight. 
They’ll be at SFO ten minutes after us, even though they’re 
only now leaving Boston. Eat the rich.” 


“Did Holden say anything about. . .” 


Malcolm shook his head. “Their plane is about to leave, but 
we can wait for them at SFO. I’m sure Adam will have some 
updates for you.” 


“You just want to make out with Holden, don’t you?” 


Malcolm smiled and leaned his head against her shoulder. 
“My kalamata knows me well.” 


It seemed impossible that she’d been gone for less than a 
week. That all the chaos had unfolded in the span of a few 
days. Olive felt dazed, shell-shocked, as though her brain was 
winded from running a marathon. She was tired and wanted to 
sleep. She was hungry and wanted to eat. She was angry and 
wanted to see Tom get what he deserved. She was anxious, as 
twitchy as a damaged nerve, and she wanted a hug. Preferably 
from Adam. 


In San Francisco, she folded her now-useless coat inside 
her suitcase and then sat on it. She checked her phone for new 
messages while Malcolm went to buy a bottle of Diet Coke. 
There were several from Anh, just checking in from Boston, 
and one from her landlord about the elevator being out of 
commission. She rolled her eyes, switched to her academic 
email, and found several unread messages flagged as 
important. 


She tapped on the red exclamation point and opened one. 


Today, 5:15 p.m. 

FROM: Anna-Wiley@berkeley.edu 

TO: Aysegul-Aslan@stanford.edu 

CC: Olive-Smith@stanford.edu 
SUBJECT: Re: Pancreatic Cancer Project 
Aysegul, 


Thank you for reaching out to me. | had the privilege of seeing 
Olive Smith's talk at SBD—we were on the same panel—and | was 
very impressed with her work on early detection tools for 
pancreatic cancer. I’d love to have her in my lab next year! Maybe 
the three of us can chat more on the phone soon? 


Best, 


Anna 


Olive gasped. She covered her mouth with her hand, and 
immediately opened another email. 


Today, 3:19 p.m. 

FROM: Robert-Gordon@umn.edu 

TO: Aysegul-Aslan@stanford.edu, Olive-Smith@stanford.edu 
SUBJECT: Pancreatic Cancer Project 

Dr. Aslan, Ms. Smith, 


Your work on pancreatic cancer is fascinating, and | would welcome 
the opportunity for a collaboration. We should set up a Zoom 
meeting. 


-R 


There were two more emails. Four total from cancer 
researchers, all following up on Dr. Aslan’s introductory 
message and saying they’d love having Olive in their labs. She 
felt a surge of happiness so violent, it almost made her dizzy. 


“Ol, look who I ran into.” 


Olive shot up to her feet. Malcolm was there, holding 
Holden’s hand, and barely a step behind them— 


Adam. Looking tired, and handsome, and as large in real 
life as he’d been in her mind for the past twenty-four hours. 
Looking straight at her. Olive recalled the words he’d said last 
night in the restaurant and felt her cheeks heat, her chest 
constrict, her heart beat out of her skin. 


“Hear me out,” Holden started without even saying hi, “the 
four of us: double date. Tonight.” 


Adam ignored him and came to stand next Olive. “How are 
you?” he asked in a low tone. 


“Good.” For the first time in days, it wasn’t even a lie. 
Adam was here. And all those emails were in her inbox. 
“You?” 


“Good,” he replied with a half smile, and she had a weird 
feeling that much like her, he wasn’t lying. Her heart picked 
up even more. 


“What about Chinese?” Holden interjected. “Everyone like 
Chinese here?” 


“Pm cool with Chinese,” Malcolm muttered, though he 
didn’t seem enthusiastic at the idea of a double date. Likely 
because he didn’t want to sit across from Adam for an entire 
meal and relive the trauma of his graduate advisory committee 
meetings. 


“Olive?” 

“Um... I like Chinese.” 

“Perfect. So does Adam, so—” 

“T’m not having dinner out,” Adam said. 

Holden frowned. “Why?” 

“I have better things to do.” 

“Like what? Olive’s coming, too.” 

“Leave Olive alone. She’s tired, and we’re busy.” 


“I have access to your Google Calendar, asshole. You’re 
not busy. If you don’t want to hang out with me, you can just 
be honest.” 


“I don’t want to hang out with you.” 


“You little shit. After the week we just had. And on my 
birthday.” 


Adam recoiled slightly. “What? It’s not your birthday.” 
“Yes, it is.” 

“Your birthday is April tenth.” 

“Ts it, though?” 


Adam closed his eyes, scratching his forehead. “Holden, 
we've talked daily for the past twenty-five years, and I have 
been to at least five Power Rangers—themed birthday parties of 
yours. The last one was when you turned seventeen.” 


Malcolm attempted to cover his laugh with a cough. 
“I know when your birthday is.” 


“You always had it wrong, I was just too nice to tell you.” 
He clasped Adam’s shoulder. “So, Chinese to celebrate the 
blessing of my birth?” 


“Why not Thai?” Malcolm interjected, addressing Holden 
and ignoring Adam. 


Holden made a whiny noise and started saying something 
about the lack of good larb in Stanford, something Olive 
would have normally been interested in hearing, except that— 


Adam was looking at her again. From several inches above 
Holden’s and Malcolm’s heads, Adam was looking at her with 
an expression that was half apologetic, half annoyed, and .. . 
all intimate, really. Something familiar they’d shared before. 
Olive felt something inside her melt and suppressed a smile. 


Suddenly, dinner seemed like a great idea. 


It will be fun, she mouthed at him while Holden and 
Malcolm were busy arguing about whether they should just try 
that new burger place. 


It will be excruciating, he mouthed back barely parting his 
lips, looking resigned and put-upon and just so amazingly 
Adam that Olive couldn’t help but burst into laughter. 


Holden and Malcolm stopped arguing and turned to her. 
“What?” 


“Nothing,” Olive said. The corner of Adam’s mouth was 
curling up, too. 


“Why are you laughing, OI?” 


She opened her mouth to deflect, but Adam beat her to it. 


“Fine. We’ll go.” He said “we” like he and Olive were a 
we,” like it had never been fake after all, and her breath 
caught in her throat. “But I’m excused from any birthday- 
related outings for the next year. Actually, make it the next 
two. And veto on the new burger place.” 


66. 


Holden fist-pumped, and then frowned. “Why veto on 
burgers?” 


“Because,” he said, holding Olive’s eyes, “burgers taste 
like foot.” 


“WE SHOULD START by addressing the obvious,” Holden said, 
chewing on the complimentary appetizers, and Olive tensed in 
her seat. She wasn’t sure she wanted to discuss the Tom 
situation with Malcolm and Holden before talking about it 
with Adam alone. 


As it turned out, she shouldn’t have worried. 
“Which is that Malcolm and Adam hate each other.” 


Next to her in the booth, Adam frowned in confusion. 
Malcolm, who was sitting across from Olive, covered his face 
with his palms and groaned. 


“I am reliably informed,” Holden continued, undeterred, 
“that Adam called Malcolm’s experiments ‘sloppy’ and ‘a 
misuse of research funds’ during a committee meeting, and 
that Malcolm took offense to that. Now, Adam, I’ve been 
telling Malcolm that you were probably just having a bad day 
—maybe one of your grads had split an infinitive in an email, 
or your arugula salad wasn’t organic enough. Do you have 
anything to say for yourself?” 


“Uh...” Adam’s frown deepened, and so did Malcolm’s 
facepalm. Holden waited pointedly for an answer, and Olive 
watched it all unfold, wondering if she should take out her 
phone and film this car crash. “I have no recollection of that 
committee meeting. Though it does sound like something I 
would say.” 


“Great. Now tell Malcolm it wasn’t personal, so we can 
move on and have fried rice.” 


“Oh my God,” Malcolm muttered. “Holden, please.” 
“I’m not having fried rice,” Adam said. 


“You can have raw bamboo while the normal people have 
fried rice. But as of right now, my boyfriend thinks that his 
BFF’s boyfriend and my own BFF has it out for him, and it’s 
cramping my double-dating style, so please.” 


Adam blinked slowly. “BFF?” 


“Adam.” Holden pointed at a grimacing Malcolm with his 
thumb. “Now, please.” 


Adam sighed heavily, but he turned to Malcolm. 
“Whatever I said or did, it was not personal. I’ve been told that 
I can be needlessly antagonistic. And unapproachable.” 


Olive didn’t get to see Malcolm’s reaction. Because she 
was busy studying Adam and the slight curl on his lips, the 
one that became an almost smile when he looked at Olive and 
met her eyes. For a second, the brief second she held his gaze 
before he looked away, it was just the two of them. And this 
sort-of-past they shared, their stupid inside jokes, the way 
they’d teased each other in the late-summer sunlight. 


“Perfect.” Holden clapped his hands, intrusively loud. “Egg 
rolls for appetizer, yes?” 


It was a good idea, this dinner. This night, this table, this 
moment. Sitting next to Adam, smelling the petrichor, 


watching the dark splotches on the gray cotton of his Henley 
from the storm that had started just as they’d slipped inside the 
restaurant. They would have to talk, later, have a serious 
conversation about Tom and many other things. But for now it 
was the way it had always been between Adam and her: like 
slipping into a favorite dress, one she’d thought lost inside her 
closet, and finding that it fit as comfortably as it used to. 


“I want egg rolls.” She glanced at Adam. His hair was 
starting to get long again, so she did what felt natural: reached 
out and flattened his cowlick. “I’m going to take a wild guess 
and assume that you hate egg rolls, just like everything else 
that’s good in the world.” 


He mouthed smart-ass right as the waiter brought their 
waters and set the menus on the table. Three menus, to be 
precise. Holden and Malcolm each took one, and Olive and 
Adam exchanged a loaded, amused look and grabbed the 
remaining one to share. It worked perfectly: he angled it so 
that the veggie section was on his side and all manner of fried 
entrées were on hers. It was serendipitous enough that she let 
out a laugh. 


Adam tapped his index finger on the drink section. “Look 
at this abomination,” he murmured. His lips were close to her 
ear—a chuff of hot air, intimate and pleasant in the blasting 
AC. 


She grinned. “No way.” 
“Appalling.” 

“Amazing, you mean.” 

“I do not.” 

“This is my new favorite restaurant.” 
“You haven’t even tried it yet.” 


“It will be spectacular.” 


“It will be horrific—” 


A throat cleared, reminding them that they were not alone. 
Malcolm and Holden were both staring—Malcolm with a 
shrewd, suspicious expression, and Holden with a knowing 
smile. “What’s all that about?” 


“Oh.” Olive’s cheeks warmed a little. “Nothing. They just 
have pumpkin spice bubble tea.” 


Malcolm pretended to gag. “Ugh, Ol. Gross.” 
“Shut up.” 


“It sounds great.” Holden smiled and leaned into Malcolm. 
“We should get one to split.” 


“Excuse me?” 


Olive tried not to laugh at Malcolm’s horrified expression. 
“Don’t get Malcolm started on pumpkin spice,” she told 
Holden in an exaggerated whisper. 


“Oh, shit.” Holden clutched his chest in mock terror. 


“This is a serious matter.” Malcolm let his menu fall on the 
table. “Pumpkin spice is Satan’s dandruff, harbinger of the 
apocalypse, and it tastes like ass—not in the good way.” Next 
to Olive Adam nodded slowly, highly impressed with 
Malcolm’s rant. “One pumpkin spice latte contains the same 
amount of sugar you’d find in fifty Skittles—and no pumpkin 
whatsoever. Look it up.” 


Adam stared at Malcolm with something very similar to 
admiration. Holden met Olive’s eyes and told her 
conspiratorially, “Our boyfriends have so much in common.” 


“They do. They think hating entire harmless families of 
food is a personality trait.” 


“Pumpkin spice is not harmless. It’s a radioactive, 
overpowering sugar bomb that worms its way into every sort 
of product and is single-handedly responsible for the 


9 


extinction of the Caribbean monk seal. And you’ 
his finger at Holden—“are on thin ice.” 


he pointed 


“What—why?” 


“I can’t date someone who doesn’t respect my stance on 
pumpkin spice.” 


“To be fair it’s not a very respectable stance—” Holden 
noticed Malcolm’s glare and lifted his hands defensively. “I 
had no idea, babe.” 


“You should have.” 


Adam clucked his tongue, amused. “Yes, Holden. Do 
better.” He leaned back in his seat, and his shoulder brushed 
against Olive’s. Holden gave him the finger. 


“Adam knows and respects Olive’s stance on hamburgers, 
and they’re not even—” Whatever Malcolm had been about to 
say, he had the sense to stop himself. “Well, if Adam knows, 
you should know about the pumpkin spice.” 


“Wasn’t Adam a dick until, like, twelve seconds ago?” 


“How the turntables,” Adam murmured. Olive reached out 
to pinch him on the side, but he stopped her with a hand 
around her wrist. 


Evil, she mouthed at him. He just smiled, evilly, studying 
Malcolm and Holden a little too gleefully. 


“Come on. It’s not even comparable,” Holden was saying. 
“Olive and Adam have been together for years. We met less 
than a week ago.” 


“They have not,” Malcolm corrected him, wagging a 
finger. Adam’s hand was still curled around her wrist. “They 
started dating, like, a month before we did.” 


“No,” Holden insisted. “Adam was into her for ages. He 
probably secretly studied her eating habits and compiled 


seventeen databases and built machine-learning algorithms to 
predict her culinary preferences—” 


Olive burst into laughter. “He did not.” She took a sip of 
water, still smiling. “We only just started hanging out. At the 
beginning of the fall semester.” 


“Yes, but you knew each other from earlier.” Holden was 
frowning. “You two met the year before you started your 
Ph.D. here, when you came for your interview, and he’s been 
pining after you ever since.” 


Olive shook her head and laughed, turning to Adam to 
share her amusement. Except that Adam was staring at her 
already, and he did not look amused. He looked . . . something 
else. Worried maybe, or apologetic, or resigned. Panicky? And 
just like that, the restaurant was silent. The pitter-patter of rain 
on the windows, people’s chatter, the clinking of silverware— 
it all receded; the floor tilted, shook a little, and the AC was 
just this side of too cold. At some point, Adam’s fingers had 
let go of her wrist. 


Olive thought back to the bathroom incident. To burning 
eyes and wet cheeks, the smell of reagent and clean, male skin. 
The blur of a large, dark figure standing in front of her with 
his deep, reassuring, amused voice. The panic of being twenty- 
three and alone and having no idea what she should be doing, 
where she should be going, what the right choice was. 


Is mine a good enough reason to go to grad school? 
Its the best one. 

All of a sudden, things had seemed simple enough. 
It had been Adam, after all. Olive had been right. 


What she hadn’t been right about was whether he 
remembered her. 


“Yes,” she said. She wasn’t smiling anymore. Adam was 
still holding her gaze. “I guess he has.” 


Chapter Twenly-Twe- 


ef HYPOTHESIS: When given a choice between A (telling a lie) 
and B (telling the truth), | will inevitably end up selecting... 


No. Not this time. 


Olive had no doubt that Holden’s tales were highly 

embellished and the result of years of comedy workshopping, 

but she still couldn’t help laughing harder than ever before. 
“And I’m awakened by this waterfall pouring down on me 


99 


Adam rolled his eyes. “It was a drop.” 


“And I’m asking myself why it’s raining inside the cabin, 
when I realize that it’s coming from the top bunk and that 
Adam, who was, like, thirteen at the time—” 


“Six. I was six, and you were seven.” 


“Had pissed the bed, and the piss was seeping through the 
mattress and onto me.” 


Olive’s hands flew up to cover her mouth, not quite 
succeeding at hiding her amusement—just like she’d failed 
when Holden had recounted that a dalmatian puppy had once 
bitten Adam’s ass through his jeans, or that he’d been voted 
“Most likely to make people cry” in his senior yearbook. 


At least Adam didn’t act embarrassed, and not nearly as 
upset as he’d seemed after Holden had talked about him pining 
after her. Which explained . . . so many things. 


Everything, maybe. 


“Man. Six years old.” Malcolm shook his head and wiped 
his eyes. 


“I was sick.” 
“Still. Seems kind of old to have an accident?” 


Adam simply stared at Malcolm until he lowered his gaze. 
“Uh, maybe not that old after all,” he muttered. 


There was a large bowl of fortune cookies by the register. 
Olive noticed it on her way out of the restaurant, let out a 
delighted squeal, and dipped her hand in to fish out four 
plastic packages. She handed one each to Malcolm and 
Holden, and held out another for Adam with a mischievous 
smile. “You hate these, don’t you?” 


“I don’t.” He accepted the cookie. “I just think they taste 
like Styrofoam.” 


“Probably have similar nutritional values, too,” Malcolm 
muttered as they slipped out into the chilly humidity of the 
early night. Surprisingly, he and Adam were finding lots of 
common ground. 


It wasn’t raining anymore, but the street was shiny in the 
light under a lamppost; a soft breeze made the leaves rustle 
and stray drops of water scatter to the ground. The air was 
fresh in Olive’s lungs, pleasantly so after the hours spent in the 
restaurant. She unrolled her sleeves, accidentally brushing her 
hand against Adam’s abs. She smiled up at him, playfully 
apologetic; he flushed and averted his eyes. 


“ “He who laughs at himself never runs out of things to 
laugh at.’” Holden popped a bit of fortune cookie in his 
mouth, blinking at the message inside. “Is that shade?” He 
looked around, indignant. “Did this fortune cookie just throw 
shade at me?” 


“Sounds like it,” Malcolm answered. “Mine says ‘Why not 
treat yourself to a good time instead of waiting for somebody 


else to do it?’ I think my cookie just shaded you, too, babe.” 


“What’s wrong with this batch?” Holden pointed at Adam 
and Olive. “What do yours say?” 


Olive was already opening hers, nibbling on a corner as she 
pulled the paper out. It was very banal, and yet her heart 
skipped beat. “Mine’s normal,” she informed Holden. 


“You're lying.” 
“Nope.” 
“What does it say?” 


““Tt’s never too late to tell the truth.’” She shrugged, and 
turned to throw away the plastic wrapper. At the last moment, 
she decided to keep the strip of paper and slip it inside her 
jeans’ back pocket. 


“Adam, open yours.” 
“Nah.” 
“Come on.” 


“I’m not going to eat a piece of cardboard because it hurt 
your feelings.” 


“Yov’re a shit friend.” 


“According to the fortune cookie industry, you’re a shit 
boyfriend, so—” 

“Give it here,” Olive interjected, plucking the cookie out of 
Adam’s hand. “TIl eat it. And read it.” 


The parking lot was completely empty, save for Adam’s 
and Malcolm’s cars. Holden had ridden from the airport with 
Adam, but he and Malcolm were planning to spend the night 
at Holden’s apartment to walk Fleming, his dog. 

“Adam’s giving you a ride, right, Ol?” 


“No need. It’s less than a ten-minute walk home.” 


“But what about your suitcase?” 


“It’s not heavy, and I—” She stopped abruptly, worried her 
lip for a second while she contemplated the possibilities, and 
then felt herself smile, at once tentative and purposeful. 
“Actually, Adam will walk me home. Right?” 


He was silent and inscrutable for a moment. Then he 
calmly said, “Of course,” slipped his keys in the pocket of his 
jeans, and slid the strap of Olive’s duffel bag over his shoulder. 


“Where do you live?” he asked when Holden was not 
within earshot anymore. 


She pointed silently. “You sure you want to carry my bag? I 
heard it’s easy to throw out your back, once you reach a 
certain age.” 


He glared at her, and Olive laughed, falling into step with 
him as they headed out of the parking lot. The street was 
silent, except for the soles of her Converse catching on the wet 
concrete and Malcolm’s car passing them by a few seconds 
later. 


“Hey,” Holden asked from the passenger window. “What 
did Adam’s fortune cookie say?” 


“Mmm.” Olive made a show to look at the strip. “Not 
much. Just ‘Holden Rodrigues, Ph.D., is a loser.’ ” Malcolm 
sped up just as Holden flipped her off, making her burst into 
laughter. 


“What does it really say?” Adam asked when they were 
finally alone. 


Olive handed him the crumpled paper and remained silent 
as he angled it to read it in the lamplight. She wasn’t surprised 
when she saw a muscle jump in his jaw, or when he slid the 
fortune into the pocket of his jeans. She knew what it said, 
after all. 


You can fall in love: someone will catch you. 


“Can we talk about Tom?” she asked, sidestepping a 
puddle. “We don’t have to, but if we can...” 


“We can. We should.” She saw his throat work. “Harvard’s 
going to fire him, of course. Other disciplinary measures are 
still being decided—there were meetings until very late last 
night.” He gave her a quick glance. “That’s why I didn’t call 
you earlier. Harvard’s Title IX coordinator should be in touch 
with you soon.” 


Good. “What about your grant?” 


His jaw clenched. “I’m not sure. I’ll figure something out 
—or not. I don’t particularly care at the moment.” 


It surprised her. And then it didn’t, not when she 
considered that the professional implications of Tom’s betrayal 
couldn’t have cut as deeply as the personal ones. “I’m sorry, 
Adam. I know he was your friend—” 


“He wasn’t.” Adam abruptly stopped in the middle of the 
street. He turned to her, his eyes a clear, deep brown. “I had no 
idea, Olive. I thought I knew him, but . . .” His Adam’s apple 
bobbed. “I should never have trusted him with you. I’m sorry.” 


9 


He said it—‘‘with you”—like Olive was something special, 
uniquely precious to him. His most beloved treasure. It made 
her want to shiver, and laugh, and weep at the same time. It 
made her happy and confused. 


“I was ... I was afraid you might be mad at me. For 
ruining things. Your relationship with Tom, and maybe .. . 
maybe you won’t be able to move to Boston anymore.” 


He shook his head. “I don’t care. I couldn’t care less about 
any of it.” He held her eyes for a long moment, his mouth 
working as though he was swallowing the rest of his words. 
But he never continued, so Olive nodded and turned around, 
starting to walk again. 


“I think I’ve found another lab. To finish my study. Closer, 
so I won’t have to move next year.” She pushed her hair 
behind her ear and smiled at him. There was something 
intrinsically enjoyable in having him next to her, so physical 
and undeniable. She felt it on some primal, visceral level, the 
giddy happiness that always came with his presence. 
Suddenly, Tom was the last thing she wanted to discuss with 
Adam. “Dinner was nice. And you were right, by the way.” 


“About the pumpkin sludge?” 


“No, that was amazing. About Holden. He really is 
insufferable.” 


“He grows on you, after a decade or so.” 
“Does he?” 
“Nah. Not really.” 


“Poor Holden.” She huffed out a small laugh. “You weren’t 
the only one who remembered, by the way.” 


He glanced at her. “Remembered what?” 


“Our meeting. The one in the bathroom, when I came to 
interview.” 


Olive thought that maybe his step faltered for a split 
second. Or maybe it didn’t. Still, there was a tinge of 
uncertainty in the deep breath he took. 


“Did you really?” 


“Yup. It just took me a while to realize that it was you. 
Why didn’t you say anything?” She was so curious about what 
had been going on in Adam’s head in the past few days, 
weeks, years. She was starting to imagine quite a bit, but some 
things . . . some things he’d have to clear up for her. 


“Because you introduced yourself like we’d never met 
before.” She thought maybe he was flushing a little. Maybe 
not. Maybe it was impossible to tell, in the starless sky and the 


faint yellow lights. “And Pd been . . . Pd been thinking about 
you. For years. And I didn’t want to...” 


She could only imagine. They’d passed each other in the 
hallways, been at countless department research symposiums 
and seminars together. She hadn’t thought anything of it, but 
now ... now she wondered what he had thought. 


He’d been going on and on about this amazing girl for 
years, but he was concerned about being in the same 
department, Holden had said. 


And Olive had assumed so much. She had been so wrong. 

“You didn’t need to lie, you know,” she said, not accusing. 

He adjusted the strap of her suitcase on his shoulder. “I 
didn’t.” 

“You sort of did. By omission.” 


“True. Are you...” He pressed his lips together. “Are you 
upset?” 


“No, not really. It’s really not that bad a lie.” 
“It’s not?” 


She nibbled on her thumbnail for a moment. “I’ve said 
much worse, myself. And I didn’t bring up our meeting, either, 
even after I made the connection.” 


“Still, if you feel” 


“I’m not upset,” she said, gentle but final. She looked up at 
him, willing him to understand. Trying to figure out how to 
tell him. How to show him. “I am . . . other things.” She 
smiled. “Glad, for instance. That you remembered me, from 
that day.” 


“You...” A pause. “You are very memorable.” 


“Ha. Pm not, really. I was no one—part of a huge 
incoming cohort.” She snorted and looked down to her feet. 


Her steps had to be much quicker than his to keep up with his 
longer legs. “I hated my first year. It was so stressful.” 


He glanced at her, surprised. “Do you remember your first 
seminar talk?” 


“I do. Why?” 


“Your elevator pitch—you called it a turbolift pitch. You 
put a picture from The Next Generation on your slides.” 


“Oh, yes. I did.” She let out a low laugh. “I didn’t know 
you were a Trekkie.” 


“I had a phase. And that year’s picnic, when we got rained 
on. You were playing freeze tag with someone’s kids for 
hours. They loved you—they had to physically peel the 
youngest off you to get him inside the car.” 


“Dr. Moss’s kids.” She looked at him curiously. A light 
breeze rose and ruffled his hair, but he didn’t seem to mind. “I 
didn’t think you liked kids. The opposite, actually.” 


He lifted one eyebrow. “I don’t like twenty-five-year-olds 
who act like toddlers. I don’t mind them if they’re actually 
three.” 


Olive smiled. “Adam, the fact that you knew who I was... 
Did it have anything to do with your decision to pretend to 
date me?” 


About a dozen expressions crossed his face as he looked 
for an answer, and she couldn’t pick apart a single one. “I 
wanted to help you, Olive.” 


“I know. I believe that.” She rubbed her fingers against her 
mouth. “But was that all?” 


He pressed his lips together. Exhaled. Closed his eyes, and 
for a split second looked like he was having his teeth and his 
soul pulled out. Then he said, resigned, “No.” 


“No,” she repeated, pensive. “This is my place, by the 
way.” She pointed at the tall brick building on the corner. 


“Right.” Adam looked around, studying her street. “Should 
I carry your bag upstairs?” 


“I... Maybe later. There is something I need to tell you. 
Before.” 


“Of course.” 


He stopped in front of her, and she looked up at him, at the 
lines of his handsome, familiar face. There was only fresh 
breeze between them, and whatever distance Adam had seen 
fit to keep. Her stubborn, mercurial fake boyfriend. 
Wonderfully, perfectly unique. Delightfully one of a kind. 
Olive felt her heart overflow. 


She took a deep breath. “The thing is, Adam . . . I was 
stupid. And wrong.” She played nervously with a lock of her 
hair, then let her hand drift down to her stomach, and—okay. 
Okay. She was going to tell him. She would do this. Now. “It’s 
like—it’s like statistical hypothesis testing. Type I error. It’s 
scary, isn’t it?” 


He frowned. She could tell he had no idea where she was 
going with this. “Type I error?” 


“A false positive. Thinking that something is happening 
when it’s not.” 


“I know what type I error is—” 


“Yes, of course. It’s just . . . in the past few weeks, what 
terrified me was the idea that I could misread a situation. That 
I could convince myself of something that wasn’t true. See 
something that wasn’t there just because I wanted to see it. A 
scientist’s worst nightmare, right?” 


“Right.” His brows furrowed. “That is why in your 
analyses you set a level of significance that is—” 


“But the thing is, type II error is bad, too.” 


Her eyes bore into his, hesitant and urgent all at once. She 
was frightened—so frightened by what she was about to say. 
But also exhilarated for him to finally know. Determined to get 
it out. 


“Yes,” he agreed slowly, confused. “False negatives are 
bad, too.” 


“That’s the thing with science. We’re drilled to believe that 
false positives are bad, but false negatives are just as 
terrifying.” She swallowed. “Not being able to see something, 
even if it’s in front of your eyes. Purposefully making yourself 
blind, just because you’re afraid of seeing too much.” 


“Are you saying that statistics graduate education is 
inadequate?” 


She exhaled a laugh, suddenly flushed, even in the dark 
cool of the night. Her eyes were starting to sting. “Maybe. But 
also . . . I think that / have been inadequate. And I don’t want 
to be, not anymore.” 


“Olive.” He took one step closer, just a few inches. Not 
enough to crowd, but plenty for her to feel his warmth. “Are 
you okay?” 


“There have been . . . so many things that have happened, 
before I even met you, and I think they messed me up a little. 
I’ve mostly lived in fear of being alone, and... PIL tell you 
about them, if you want. First, I have to figure it out on my 
own, why shielding myself with a bunch of lies seemed like a 
better idea than admitting even one ounce of truth. But I 
think...” 


She took a deep, shuddering breath. There was a tear, one 
single tear that she could feel sliding down her cheek. Adam 
saw it and mouthed her name. 


“I think that somewhere along the way I forgot that I was 
something. I forgot myself.” 


She was the one who stepped closer. The one who put her 
hand on the hem of his shirt, who tugged gently and held on to 
it, who started touching him and crying and smiling at the 
same time. “There are two things I want to tell you, Adam.” 


“What can I—” 
“Please. Just let me tell you.” 


He wasn’t very good at it. At standing there and doing 
nothing while her eyes welled fuller and fuller. She could tell 
that he felt useless, his hands dangling in fists at his sides, and 
she . . . she loved him even more for it. For looking at her like 
she was the beginning and end of his every thought. 


“The first thing is that I lied to you. And my lie was not 
just by omission.” 


“Olive—” 


“It was a real lie. A bad one. A stupid one. I let you—no, I 
made you think that I had feelings for someone else, when in 
truth . . . I didn’t. I never did.” 


His hand came up to cup the side of her face. “What do you 


99 


“But that’s not very important.” 


“Olive.” He pulled her closer, pressing his lips against her 
forehead. “It doesn’t matter. Whatever it is that you’re crying 
about, I will fix it. I will make it right. I” 


“Adam,” she interrupted him with a wet smile. “It’s not 
important, because the second thing, that’s what really 
matters.” 


They were so close, now. She could smell his scent and his 
warmth, and his hands were cradling her face, thumbs swiping 
back and forth to dry her cheeks. 


“Sweetheart,” he murmured. “What is the second thing?” 


She was still crying, but she’d never been happier. So she 
said it, probably in the worst accent he’d ever heard. 


“Tk hou van jou, Adam.” 


ef RESULTS: Careful analyses of the data collected, accounting 
for potential confounds, statistical error, and experimenter’s 


bias, show that when I fall in love . . . things don’t actually turn 
out to be that bad. 


Ten months later 


“Stand there. You were standing right there.” 
“Was I?” 


He was humoring her. A little. That deliciously put-upon 
expression had become Olive’s favorite over the past year. “A 
bit closer to the water fountain. Perfect.” She took a step back 
to admire her handiwork and then winked at him as she took 
out her phone to snap a quick picture. She briefly considered 
swapping it for her current screensaver—a selfie of the two of 
them in Joshua Tree a few weeks earlier, Adam squinting in 
the sun and Olive pressing her lips to his cheek—but then 
thought better of it. 


Their summer had been full of hiking trips, and delicious 
ice cream, and late-night kisses on Adam’s balcony, laughing 
and sharing untold stories and looking up at the stars, so much 
brighter than the ones Olive had once climbed on a ladder to 
stick to the ceiling of her bedroom. She was going to start 
working at a cancer lab at Berkeley in less than a week, which 
would mean a busier, more stressful schedule and a bit of a 
commute. And yet, she couldn’t wait. 


“Just stand there,” she ordered. “Look antagonistic and 
unapproachable. And say ‘pumpkin spice.’” 


He rolled his eyes. “What’s your plan if someone comes 
in?” 


Olive glanced around the biology building. The hallway 
was silent and deserted, and the dim after-hours lights made 
Adam’s hair look almost blue. It was late, and summer, and the 
weekend to boot: no one was going to come in. Even if they 
did, Olive Smith and Adam Carlsen were old news by now. 
“Like who?” 


“Anh might show up. To help you re-create the magic.” 
“Pretty sure she’s out with Jeremy.” 
“Jeremy? The guy you’re in love with?” 


Olive stuck her tongue out at him and glanced down at her 
phone. Happy. She was so happy, and she didn’t even know 
why. Except that she did know. 


“Okay. In one minute.” 


“You can’t know the exact time.” Adam’s tone was patient 
and indulgent. “Not to the minute.” 


“Wrong. I ran a Western blot that night. I looked at my lab 
logs, and I reconstructed both the when and the where down to 
the error bars. I am a thorough scientist.” 


“Hm.” Adam folded his arms across his chest. “How did 
that blotting turn out?” 


“Not the point.” She grinned. “What were you doing here, 
by the way?” 
“What do you mean?” 


“A year ago. Why were you walking around the 
department at night?” 


“I can’t remember. Maybe I had a deadline. Or maybe I 
was going home.” He shrugged, and scanned the hallway until 
his eyes fell on the water fountain. “Maybe I was thirsty.” 


“Maybe.” She took a step closer. “Maybe you were secretly 
hoping for a kiss.” 


He gave her a long, amused look. “Maybe.” 


She took another step, and another, and another. And then 
her alarm beeped, once, right as she came to stand in front of 
him. Another intrusion of his personal space. But this time, 
when she pushed up on her toes, when she wrapped her arms 
around his neck, Adam’s hands pulled her deeper into himself. 


It had been one year. Exactly one year. And by now his 
body was so familiar to her, she knew the breadth of his 
shoulders, the scratch of his stubble, the scent of his skin, all 
by heart; she could feel the smile in his eyes. 


Olive sank into him, let him support her weight, and then 
moved until her mouth was almost level with his ear. She 
pressed her lips against its shell, and whispered softly into his 
skin. 


“May I kiss you, Dr. Carlsen?” 


withers Note 


I write stories set in academia because academia is all I know. 
It can be a very insular, all-consuming, isolating environment. 
In the past decade, I’ve had excellent (women) mentors who 
constantly supported me, but I could name dozens of instances 
in which I felt as though I was a massive failure blundering 
her way through science. But that, as everyone who’s been 
there knows, is grad school: a stressful, high-pressure, 
competitive endeavor. Academia has its own special way of 
tearing apart work-life balance, wearing people down, and 
making them forget that they are worth more than the number 
of papers they publish or the grant money they are able to rake 
in. 


Taking the thing I love the most (writing love stories) and 
giving it a STEM academia backdrop has been surprisingly 
therapeutic. My experiences have not been the same as Olive’s 
(no academic fake dating for me, boo), but I still managed to 
pour many of my frustrations, joys, and disappointments into 
her adventures. Just like Olive, in the past few years I have felt 
lonely, determined, helpless, scared, happy, cornered, 
inadequate, misunderstood, enthusiastic. Writing The Love 
Hypothesis gave me the opportunity to turn these experiences 
around with a humorous, sometimes self-indulgent spin, and to 
realize that I could put my own misadventures into perspective 
—sometimes even laugh at them! For this reason—and I know 
I probably shouldn’t say it—this book means as much to me as 
my Ph.D. dissertation did. 


Okay—that’s a lie. It means waaay more. 


If you’re not familiar with it, a few words about a topic that 
comes up quite a bit in the book: Title IX is a US federal law 
that prohibits any kind of discrimination on the basis of gender 
in all institutions that receive federal funding (i.e., most 
universities). It legally compels schools to respond to and 
remedy situations of misconduct ranging from hostile work 
environments to harassment and assault. Covered schools have 
Title IX coordinators, whose job is to handle complaints and 
violations and to educate an institution’s community about 
their rights. Title IX has been and currently is critical to 
guarantee equal access to education and to protect students and 
employees against gender-based discrimination. 


Lastly: the women in STEM organizations Anh mentions 
in the book are fictionalized, but most universities host 
chapters of similar organizations. For real-life resources on 
supporting women academics in STEM, visit awis.org. For 
resources that specifically support BIPOC women academics 
in STEM, visit sswoc.org. 


Wckmewledamenty 


First, just allow me to say: asgfgsfasdgfadg. I cannot believe 
this book exists. Truly, afgjsdfafksjfadg. 


Second, allow me to further say: this book would not exist 
if approximately two hundred people hadn’t held my hand for 
the past two years. *Cue end credits song.* In a very 
disorganized order, I must acknowledge: 


Thao Le, my marvelous agent (your DM changed my life, 
for the very best); Sarah Blumenstock, my fantastic editor 
(who is not that kind of editor); Rebecca and Alannah, my 
very first betas (and shout-out to Alannah for the title!); my 
gremlins, for being gremalicious and for always defending the 
c.p.; Daddy Lucy and Jen (thank you for all the reads and the 
SM and the infinite hand-holding), Claire, Court, Julie, Katie, 
Kat, Kelly, Margaret, and my wife, Sabine (ALIMONE!) (as 
well as Jess, Shep, and Trix, my honorary grems). My Words 
Are Hard buds, for the whining support: Celia, Kate, Sarah, 
and Victoria. My TMers, who believed in me from the start: 
Court, Dani, Christy, Kate, Mar, Marie, and Rachelle; Caitie, 
for being the first IRL person who made me feel like I could 
talk about all of this; Margo Lipschultz and Jennie Conway, 
for the precious feedback on early drafts; Frankie, for the 
timeliest of prompts; Psi, for inspiring me with her beautiful 
writing; the Berkletes, for the pooping and the knotting; 
Sharon Ibbotson, for the invaluable editorial input and 
encouragement; Stephanie, Jordan, Lindsey Merril, and Kat, 
for beta reading my manuscript and helping me fix it; Lilith, 
for the stunning art and the amazing cover, as well as the 


peeps at Penguin Creative; Bridget O’ Toole and Jessica Brock 
for helping me make people think that they might want to read 
this book; everyone at Berkley who has helped getting this 
manuscript in shape behind the scenes; Rian Johnson, for 
doing The Thing that inspired me to do All The Things. 


The truth is, I never saw myself as someone who’d ever 
write anything but science articles. And I probably never 
would have if it hadn’t been for all the fanfiction authors who 
posted amazing pieces online and encouraged me to start 
writing myself. And I certainly wouldn’t have had the guts to 
start writing original fiction if it hadn’t been for the support, 
the cheering, the encouragement, the con-crit I got from the 
Star Trek and Star Wars/Reylo fandoms. To everyone who has 
left a comment or kudos on my fics, who has given me shout- 
outs on social media, who has reached out in DMs, who has 
drawn art for me or made a mood board, who has cheered me 
on, who has taken the time to read something I’ve written: 
thank you. Really, thank you so much. I owe you a lot. 


Last, and let’s be real, also definitely least: some half- 
hearted thanks to Stefan, for all the love and the patience. You 
better not be reading this, you pretentious hipster. 


Don’t miss 


Love on the Brain 


coming soon from Berkley Jove! 
“By the way, you can get leprosy from armadillos.” 


I peel my nose away from the airplane window and glance 
at Rocio, my research assistant. “Really?” 


“Yep. They got it from humans millennia ago, and now 
they’re giving it back to us.” She shrugs. “Revenge and cold 
dishes and all that.” 


I scrutinize her beautiful face for hints that she’s lying. Her 
large dark eyes, heavily rimmed with eyeliner, are inscrutable. 
Her hair is so Vantablack, it absorbs 99 percent of visible light. 
Her mouth is full, curved downward in its typical pout. 


Nope. I got nothing. “Is this for real?” 
“Would I ever lie to you?” 


“Last week you swore to me that Stephen King was writing 
a Winnie-the-Pooh spin-off.” And I believed her. Like I 
believed that Lady Gaga is a known satanist, or that badminton 
racquets are made from human bones and intestines. Chaotic 
goth misanthropy and creepy deadpan sarcasm are her brand, 
and I should know better than to take her seriously. Problem is, 
every once in a while she’ll throw in a crazy-sounding story 
that upon further inspection (1.e., a Google search) is revealed 
to be true. For instance, did you know that the Texas Chainsaw 
Massacre was inspired by a true story? Before Rocio, I didn’t. 
And I slept significantly better. 


“Don’t believe me, then.” She shrugs, going back to her 
grad school admission prep book. “Go pet the leper armadillos 
and die.” 


She’s such a weirdo. I adore her. 


“Hey, you sure you’re going to be fine, away from Alex for 
the next few months?” I feel a little guilty for taking her away 
from her boyfriend. When I was twenty-two, if someone had 
asked me to be apart from Tim for months, I’d have walked 
into the sea. Then again, hindsight has proven beyond doubt 
that I was a complete idiot, and Rocio seems pretty enthused 
for the opportunity. She plans to apply to Johns Hopkins’s 
neuro program in the fall, and the NASA line on her CV won’t 
hurt. She even hugged me when I invited her to come along— 
a moment of weakness I’m sure she deeply regrets. 


“Fine? Are you kidding?” She looks at me like I’m insane. 
“Three months in Texas, do you know how many times Pll get 
to see La Llorona?” 


“La... what?” 


She rolls her eyes and pops in her AirPods. “You really 
know nothing about famed feminist ghosts.” 


I bite back a smile and turn back to the window. In 1905, 
Dr. Curie decided to invest her Nobel Prize money into hiring 
her first research assistant. I wonder if she, too, ended up 
working with a mildly terrifying, Cthulhu-worshipping emo 
girl. I stare at the clouds until I’m bored, and then I take my 
phone out of my pocket and connect to the complimentary in- 
flight Wi-Fi. I glance at Rocio, making sure that she’s not 
paying attention to me, and angle my screen away. 


I’m not a very secretive person, mostly out of laziness: I 
refuse to take on the cognitive labor of tracking lies and 
omissions. I do, however, have one secret. One single piece of 
information that I’ve never shared with anyone—not even my 
sister. Don’t get me wrong, I trust Reike with my life, but I 
also know her well enough to picture the scene: she is wearing 
a flowy sundress and flirting with a Scottish shepherd she met 
in a trattoria on the Amalfi Coast. They decide to do the 


shrooms they just purchased from a Belarusian farmer, and 
mid-trip she accidentally blurts out the one thing she’s been 
expressly forbidden to repeat: her twin sister, Bee, runs one of 
the most popular and controversial accounts on Academic 
Twitter. The Scottish shepherd’s cousin is a closeted men’s 
rights activist who sends me a dead possum in the mail and 
rats me out to his insane friends, and I get fired. 


No, thank you. I love my job (and possums) too much for 
this. 


I created @WhatWouldMarieDo during my first semester 
of grad school. I was teaching a neuroanatomy class and 
decided to give my students an anonymous mid-semester 
survey to ask for honest feedback on how to improve the 
course. What I got was . . . not that. I was told that my lectures 
would be more interesting if I delivered them naked. That I 
should gain some weight, get a boob job, stop dying my hair 
“unnatural colors,” get rid of my piercings. I was even given a 
phone number to call if I was “ever in the mood for a ten-inch 
dick.” (Yeah, right.) 


The messages were pretty appalling, but what sent me 
sobbing in a bathroom stall was the reactions of the other 
students in my cohort—Tim included. They laughed the 
comments off as harmless pranks and dissuaded me from 
reporting them to the department chair, telling me that I’d be 
making a stink about nothing. 


They were, of course, all men. 
(Seriously: Why are men?) 


That night I fell asleep crying. The following day, I got up, 
wondered how many other women in STEM felt as alone as I 
did, and impulsively downloaded Twitter and made 
@WhatWouldMarieDo. I slapped on a poorly photoshopped 
pic of Dr. Curie wearing sunglasses and a one-line bio: Making 
the periodic table girlier since 1889 (she/her). I just wanted to 


scream into the void. I honestly didn’t think that anyone would 
even see my first Tweet. But I was wrong. 


@WhatWouldMarieDo What would Dr. Curie, first female 
professor at La Sorbonne, do if one of her students asked her to 
deliver her lectures naked? 


@198888 She would shorten his half-life. 
@annahhhh RAT HIM OUT TO PIERRE!!! 


@emily89 Put some polonium in his pants and watch his dick 
shrivel. 


@bioworm55 Nuke him NUKE HIM 


@lucyinthesea Has this happened to you? God l'm so sorry. Once 
a student said something about my ass and it was so gross and no 
one believed me. 


Over half a decade later, after a handful of Chronicle of 
Higher Education nods, a New York Times article, and about a 
million followers, WWMD is my happy place. What’s best is, 
I think the same is true for many others. The account has 
evolved into a therapeutic community of sorts, used by women 
in STEM to tell their stories, exchange advice, and . . . bitch. 


Oh, we bitch. We bitch a lot, and it’s glorious. 


@BiologySarah Hey, @WhatWouldMarieDo if she weren't given 
authorship on a project that was originally her idea and that she 
worked on for over one year? All other authors are men, because 
*of course* they are. 


“Yikes.” I scrunch my face and quote-tweet Sarah. 


Marie would slip some radium in their coffee. Also, she would 
consider reporting this to her institution's Office of Research 
Integrity, making sure to document every step of the process ¥ 


I hit send, drum my fingers on the armrest, and wait. My 
answers are not the main attraction of the account, not in the 
least. The real reason people reach out to WWMD is... 


Yep. This. I feel my grin widen as the replies start coming 
in. 


@DrAllixx This happened to me, too. | was the only woman and 
only POC in the author lineup and my name suddenly 
disappeared during revisions. DM if u want to chat, Sarah. 


@AmyBernard | am a member of the Women in Science 
Association, and we have advice for situations like this on our 
website (they're sadly common)! 


@TheGeologician Going through the same situation rn 
@BiologySarah. | did report it to ORI and it’s still unfolding but I’m 
happy to talk if you need to vent. 


@SteveHarrison Dude, breaking news: you're lying to yourself. 
Your contributions aren't VALUABLE enough to warrant 
authorship. Your team did you a favor letting you tag along for a 
while but if you're not smart enough, you're OUT. Not everything is 
about being a woman, sometimes you're just A LOSER ® 


It is a truth universally acknowledged that a community of 
women trying to mind their own business must be in want of a 
random man’s opinion. 


I’ve long learned that engaging with basement-dwelling 
STEMlords who come online looking for a fight is never a 
good idea—the last thing I want is to provide free 
entertainment for their fragile egos. If they want to blow off 
some steam, they can buy a gym membership or play third- 
person-shooter video games. Like normal people. 


I make to hide @SteveHarrison’s delightful contribution 
but notice that someone has replied to him. 


@Shmacademics Yeah, Marie, sometimes you're just a loser. Steve 
would know. 


I chuckle. 


@WhatWouldMarieDo Aw, Steve. Don't be too hard on yourself. 


@Shmacademics He is just a boy, standing in front of a girl, asking 
her to do twice as much work as he ever did in order to prove that 


she’s worthy of becoming a scientist. 
@WhatWouldMarieDo Steve, you old romantic. 


@SteveHarrison Fuck you. This ridiculous push for women in STEM 
is ruining STEM. People should get jobs because they're good 
NOT BECAUSE THEY HAVE VAGINAS. But now people feel like 
they have to hire women and they get jobs over men who are 
MORE QUALIFIED. This is the end of STEM AND IT'S WRONG. 


@WhatWouldMarieDo | can see you're upset about this, Steve. 


@Shmacademics There, there. 


Steve blocks both of us, and I chuckle again, drawing a 
curious glance from Rocio. @Shmacademics is another hugely 
popular account on Academic Twitter, and by far my favorite. 
He mostly tweets about how he should be writing, makes fun 
of elitism and ivory-tower academics, and points out bad or 
biased science. I was initially a bit distrustful of him—his bio 
says “he/him,” and we all know how cis men on the internet 
can be. But he and I ended up forming an alliance of sorts. 
When the STEMlords take offense at the sheer idea of women 
in STEM and start pitchforking in my mentions, he helps me 
ridicule them a little. I’m not sure when we started direct 
messaging, when I stopped being afraid that he was secretly a 
retired Gamergater out to doxx me, or when I began 
considering him a friend. But a handful of years later, here we 
are, chatting about half a dozen different things a couple of 
times a week, without having even exchanged real names. Is it 
weird, knowing that Shmac had lice three times in second 
grade but not which time zone he lives in? A bit. But it’s also 
liberating. Plus, having opinions online can be very dangerous. 
The internet is a sea full of creepy, cybercriminal fish, and if 
Mark Zuckerberg can cover his laptop webcam with a piece of 
tape, I reserve the right to keep things painfully anonymous. 


The flight attendant offers me a glass of water from a tray. I 
shake my head, smile, and DM Shmac. 


Marie: | think Steve doesn’t want to play with us anymore. 


Shmac: | think Steve wasn’t held enough as a tadpole. 
Marie: Lol! 
Shmac: How's life? 


Marie: Good! Cool new project starting next week. My ticket away 
from my gross boss 


Shmac: | hope so. Can't believe dude’s still around. 

Marie: The power of connections. And inertia. What about you? 
Shmac: Work’s interesting. 

Marie: Good interesting? 

Shmac: Politicky interesting. So, no. 

Marie: I'm afraid to ask. How's the rest? 

Shmac: Weird. 

Marie: Did your cat poop in your shoe again? 

Shmac: No, but | did find a tomato in my boot the other day. 
Marie: Send pics next time! What's going on? 

Shmac: Nothing, really. 

Marie: Oh, come on! 

Shmac: How do you even know something's going on? 


Marie: Your lack of exclamation points! 


Marie: Shmac. 
Shmac: FYI, I'm sighing deeply. 
Marie: | bet. Tell me! 


Shmac: It's a girl. 


Shmac: There isn’t much to tell. 


Marie: Did you just meet her? 


Shmac: No. She’s someone I've known for a long time, and now 
she’s back. 


Shmace: And she is married. 
Marie: To you? 
Shmac: Depressingly, no. 


Shmac: Sorry-we're restructuring the lab. Gotta go before 
someone destroys a5 mil piece of equipment. Talk later. 


Marie: Sure, but I'll want to know everything about your affair with 
a married woman 


Shmac: | wish. 


It’s nice to know that Shmac is always a click away, 
especially now that I’m flying into the Wardass’s frosty, 
unwelcoming lap. 


I switch to my email app to check if Levi has finally 
answered the email I sent three days ago. It was just a couple 
of lines—Hey, long time no see, I look forward to working 
together again, would you like to meet to discuss BLINK this 
weekend?—but he must have been too busy to reply. Or too 
full of contempt. Or both. 


Ugh. 


I lean back against the headrest and close my eyes, 
wondering how Dr. Curie would deal with Levi Ward. She’d 
probably hide some radioactive isotopes in his pockets, grab 
popcorn, and watch nuclear decay work its magic. 


Yep, sounds about right. 


After a few minutes, I fall asleep. I dream that Levi is part 
armadillo: his skin glows a faint, sallow green, and he’s 
digging a tomato out of his boot with an expensive piece of 
equipment. Even with all of that, the weirdest thing about him 
is that he’s finally being nice to me. 


WE'RE PUT UP in small furnished apartments in a lodging facility 
just outside the Johnson Space Center, only a couple of 
minutes from the Sullivan Discovery Building, where we’ll be 
working. I can’t believe how short my commute is going to be. 


“Bet you'll still manage to be late all the time,” Rocio tells 
me, and I glare at her while unlocking my door. It’s not my 
fault if ve spent a sizable chunk of my formative years in 
Italy, where time is but a polite suggestion. 


The place is considerably nicer than the apartment I rent— 
maybe because of the raccoon incident, probably because I 
buy 90 percent of my furniture from the as-is bargain corner at 
Ikea. It has a balcony, a dishwasher, and—huge improvement 
on my quality of life—a toilet that flushes 100 percent of the 
times I push the lever. Truly paradigm shifting. I excitedly 
open and close every single cupboard (they’re all empty; I’m 
not sure what I expected), take pictures to send Reike and my 
coworkers, stick my favorite Marie Curie magnet to the fridge 
(a picture of her holding a beaker that says “I’m pretty rad”), 
hang my hummingbird feeder on the balcony, and then... 


It’s still only two-thirty p.m. Ugh. 


Not that Im one of those people who hates having free 
time. I could easily spend five solid hours napping, rewatching 
an entire season of The Office while eating Twizzlers, or 
moving to step 2 of the couch-to-5K plan I’m still very .. . 
okay, sort of committed to. But I am here! In Houston! Near 
the Space Center! About to start the coolest project of my life! 


It’s Friday, and I’m not due to check in until Monday, but 
I’m brimming with nervous energy. So I text Rocio to ask 
whether she wants to check out the Space Center with me 
(No.) or to grab dinner together (7 only eat animal carcasses.). 


She’s so mean. I love her. 


My first impression of Houston is: big. Closely followed 
by: humid, and then by: humidly big. In Maryland, remnants 
of snow still cling to the ground, but the Space Center is 
already lush and green, a mix of open spaces and large 
buildings and old NASA aircraft on display. There are families 
visiting, which reminds me a little of an amusement park. I 
can’t believe I’m going to be seeing rockets on my way to 
work for the next three months. It sure beats the perv crossing 
guard who works on the NIH campus. 


The Discovery Building is on the outskirts of the center. 
It’s wide, futuristic, and three-storied, with glass walls and a 
complicated-looking stair system I can’t quite figure out. I step 
inside the marble hall, wondering if my new office will have a 
window. I’m not used to natural light; the sudden intake of 
vitamin D might kill me. 


“Pm Bee Konigswasser.” I smile at the receptionist. “I’m 
starting work here on Monday, and I was wondering if I could 
take a look around?” 


He gives me an apologetic smile. “I can’t let you in if you 
don’t have an ID badge. The engineering labs are upstairs— 
high-security areas.” 


Right. Yes. The engineering labs. Levi’s labs. He’s 
probably up there, hard at work. Engineering. Labbing. Not 
answering my emails. 


“No problem, that’s understandable. PI just—” 
“Dr. Konigswasser? Bee?” 


I turn around. There is a blond young man behind me. He’s 
nonthreateningly handsome, medium height, smiling at me 
like we’re old friends even though he doesn’t look familiar. 
ie at HLZ” 


“I didn’t mean to eavesdrop, but I caught your name, 
and... I’m Guy. Guy Kowalsky?” 


The name clicks immediately. I break into a grin. “Guy! 
It’s so nice to meet you in person.” When I was first notified 
of BLINK, Guy was my point of contact for logistics 
questions, and he and I emailed back and forth a few times. 
He’s an astronaut—an actual astronaut!—working on BLINK 
while he’s grounded. He seemed so familiar with the project, I 
initially assumed he’d be my co-lead. 


He shakes my hand warmly. “I love your work! I’ve read 
all your articles—you’ll be such an asset to the project.” 


“Likewise. I can’t wait to collaborate.” 


If I weren’t dehydrated from the flight, Id probably tear 
up. I cannot believe that this man, this nice, pleasant man who 
has given me more positive interactions in one minute than Dr. 
Wardass did in one year, could have been my co-lead. I must 
have pissed off some god. Zeus? Eros? Must be Poseidon. 
Shouldn’t have peed in the Baltic Sea during my misspent 
youth. 


“Why don’t I show you around? You can come in as my 
guest.” He nods to the receptionist and gestures at me to 
follow him. 


“I wouldn’t want to take you away from . . . astronauting?” 


“T’m between missions. Giving you a tour beats debugging 
any day.” He shrugs, something boyishly charming about him. 
We’ll get along great, I already know it. 


“Have you lived in Houston long?” I ask as we step into 
the elevator. 


“About eight years. Came to NASA right out of grad 
school. Applied for the Astronaut Corps, did the training, then 
a mission.” I do some math in my head. It would put him in 
his mid-thirties, older than I initially thought. “The past two or 


so, I worked on BLINK’s precursor. Engineering the structure 
of the helmet, figuring out the wireless system. But we got to a 
point where we needed a neurostimulation expert on board.” 
He gives me a warm smile. 


“I cannot wait to see what we cook up together.” I also 
cannot wait to find out why Levi was given the lead of this 
project over someone who has been on it for five years. It just 
seems unfair. To Guy and to me. 


The elevator doors open, and he points to a quaint-looking 
café in the corner. “That place over there—amazing 
sandwiches, worst coffee in the world. You hungry?” 


“No, thanks.” 


“You sure? It’s on me. The egg sandwiches are almost as 
good as the coffee is bad.” 


“I don’t really eat eggs.” 
“Let me guess, a vegan?” 


I nod. I try hard to break the stereotypes that plague my 
people and not use the word “vegan” in my first three 
meetings with a new acquaintance, but if they’re the ones to 
mention it, all bets are off. 


“I should introduce you to my daughter. She recently 
announced that she won’t eat animal products anymore.” He 
sighs. “Last weekend I poured regular milk in her cereal 
figuring she wouldn’t know the difference. She told me that 
her legal team will be in touch.” 


“How old is she?” 
“Just turned six.” 
I laugh. “Good luck with that.” 


I stopped having meat at seven, when I realized that the 
delicious pollo nuggets my Sicilian grandmother served nearly 
every day and the cute galline grazing about the farm were 


more .. . connected than I originally suspected. Stunning plot 
twist, I know. Reike wasn’t nearly as distraught: when I 
frantically explained that “Pigs have families, too. A mom and 
a dad and siblings that will miss them,” she just nodded 
thoughtfully and said, “What you’re saying is, we should eat 
the whole family?” I went fully vegan a couple of years later. 
Meanwhile, my sister has made it her life’s goal to eat enough 
animal products for two. Together we emit one normal 
person’s carbon footprint. 


“The engineering labs are down this hallway,” Guy says. 
The space is an interesting mix of glass and wood, and I can 
see inside some of the rooms. “A bit cluttered, and most 
people are off today—we’re shuffling around equipment and 
reorganizing the space. We’ve got lots of ongoing projects, but 
BLINK’s everyone’s favorite child. The other astronauts pop 
by every once in a while just to ask how much longer it will be 
until their fancy swag is ready.” 


I grin. “For real?” 
“Yep.” 


Making fancy swag for astronauts is my literal job 
description. I can add it to my LinkedIn profile. Not that 
anyone uses LinkedIn. 


“The neuroscience labs—your labs—will be on the right. 
This way there are—” His phone rings. “Sorry—amind if I take 
it?” 


“Not at all.” I smile at his beaver phone case (“Nature’s 
Engineer”) and look away. 


I wonder whether Guy would think I’m lame if I snapped a 
few pictures of the building for my friends. I decide that I can 
live with that, but when I take out my phone, I hear a noise 
from down the hallway. It’s soft and chirpy, and sounds a lot 
likea... 


“Meow.” 


I glance back at Guy. He’s busy explaining how to put on 
Moana to someone very young, so I decide to investigate. 
Most of the rooms are deserted, labs full of large, abstruse 
equipment that looks like it belongs to . . . well. NASA. I hear 
male voices somewhere in the building, but no sign of the— 


“Meow.” 


I turn around. A few feet away, staring at me with a curious 
expression, is a beautiful young calico. 


“And who might you be?” I slowly hold out my hand. The 
kitten comes closer, delicately sniffs my fingers, and gives me 
a welcoming headbutt. 


I laugh. “You’re such a sweet girl.” I squat down to scratch 
her under her chin. She nips my finger, a playful love bite. 
“Aren’t you the most purr-fect little baby? I feel so fur-tunate 
to have met you.” 


She gives me a disdainful look and turns away. I think she 
understands puns. 


“Come on, I was just kitten.” Another outraged glare. Then 
she jumps on a nearby cart, piled ceiling-high with boxes and 
heavy, precarious-looking equipment. “Where are you going?” 


I squint, trying to figure out where she disappeared, and 
that’s when I realize it. The piece of equipment? The 
precarious-looking one? It actually is precarious. And the cat 
poked it just enough to dislodge it. And it’s falling on my 
head. 


Right. 
About. 
Now. 


I have less than three seconds to move away. Which is too 
bad, because my entire body is suddenly made of stone, 


unresponsive to my brain’s commands. I stand there, terrified, 
paralyzed, and close my eyes as a jumbled chaos of thoughts 
twists through my head. Zs the cat okay? Am I going to die? 
Oh God, I am going to die. Squashed by a tungsten anvil like 
Wile E. Coyote. I am a twenty-first century Pierre Curie, about 
to get my skull crushed by a horse-drawn cart. Except that I 
have no chair in the physics department of the University of 
Paris to leave to my lovely spouse, Marie. Except that I have 
barely done a tenth of all the science I meant to do. Except 
that I wanted so many things and I never oh my God any 
second now— 


Something slams into my body, shoving me aside and into 
the wall. 


Everything is pain. 


For a couple of seconds. Then the pain is over, and 
everything is noise: metal clanking as it plunges to the floor, 
horrified screaming, a shrill “meow” somewhere in the 
distance, and, closer to my ear . . . someone is panting. Less 
than an inch from me. 


I open my eyes, gasping for breath, and... 
Green. 


All I can see is green. Not dark, like the grass outside; not 
dull, like the pistachios I had on the plane. This green is light, 
piercing, intense. Familiar, but hard to place, not unlike— 


Eyes. Pm looking up into the greenest eyes I’ve ever seen. 
Eyes that Pve seen before. Eyes surrounded by wavy black 
hair and a face that’s angles and sharp edges and full lips, a 
face that’s offensively, imperfectly handsome. A face attached 
to a large, solid body—a body that is pinning me to the wall, a 
body made of a broad chest and two thighs that could 
moonlight as redwoods. Easily. One is slotted between my legs 
and it’s holding me up. Unyielding. This man even smells like 
a forest—and that mouth. That mouth is still breathing heavily 


on top of me, probably from the effort of whisking me off 
from under seven hundred pounds of mechanical engineering 
tools, and— 


I know that mouth. 
Levi. 
Levi. 


I haven’t seen Levi Ward in six years. Six blessed, blissful 
years. And now here he is, pushing me into a wall in the 
middle of NASA’s Space Center, and he looks .. . he looks... 


“Levi!” someone yells. The clanking goes silent. What was 
meant to fall has settled on the floor. “Are you okay?” 


Levi doesn’t move, nor does he look away. His mouth 
works, and so does his throat. His lips part to say something, 
but no sound comes out. Instead a hand, at once rushed and 
gentle, reaches up to cup my face. It’s so large, I feel perfectly 
cradled. Engulfed in green, cozy warmth. I whimper when it 
leaves my skin, a plaintive, involuntary sound from deep in 
my throat, but I stop when I realize that it’s only shifting to the 
back of my skull. To the hollow of my collarbone. To my 
brow, pushing back my hair. 


It’s a cautious touch. Pressing but delicate. Lingering but 
urgent. As though he is studying me. Trying to make sure that 
I’m all in one piece. Memorizing me. 


I lift my eyes, and for the first time I notice the deep, 
unmasked concern in Levi’s eyes. 


His lips move, and I think that, maybe—is he mouthing my 
name? Once, and then again? Like it’s some kind of prayer? 


“Levi? Levi, is she—” 


My eyelids fall closed, and everything goes dark. 


Photo courtesy of the author 


Ali Hazelwood is a multipublished author—alas, of peer- 
reviewed articles about brain science, in which no one makes 
out and the ever after is not always happy. Originally from 
Italy, she lived in Germany and Japan before moving to the 
United States to pursue a Ph.D. in neuroscience. She recently 
became a professor, which absolutely terrifies her. When Ali is 
not at work, she can be found running, eating cake pops, or 
watching sci-fi movies with her two feline overlords (and her 
slightly-less-feline husband). 


CONNECT ONLINE 
AliHazelwood.com 
W EverSoAli 
AliHazelwood 


Penguin 
Random House 
PENGUIN PUBLISHING GROUP 


What’s next on 
your reading list? 


Discover your next 
great read! 


Get personalized book picks and up-to-date news 
about this author. 


Sign up now. 
    